Technical metrics are not only ones worth
considering. Of the classical triad of
security program elements, technology,
people, and process. The latter two can
rarely be perfectly described by simple
equation of diagnostic measure. Security
program metrics try to measure the
performance of people and processes,
independent of the underlying technologies
We are now discussing measuring security
program effectiveness. Security is about
control; while we speak about security
effectiveness, we are really talking about
effectiveness of the controls in aggregate
Metrics promote accountability by
quantifying the effectiveness of security
processes. They tell us what are controls
are working the way they should by boiling
them down into numbers. Nearly every
mainstream IT and security framework
assumes or requires that practitioners
implement reporting and accountability
controls of one kind or another. As an
organizing principle, we categorize the
process effectiveness metrics along the
lines of the 4 high level Cobit domains.
This technologic agnostic domain. Planning
and organization are processes for
defining strategic security plans scoping
of all program budgets and the levels of
investment. Assesing risks and managing
organizational and human resources.
Acquisition and implementation domain
contains the processes for identifying,
acquiring, developing, and installing
security certainties. Delivery and support
domain are processes for defining service
levels, managing internal and third party
access, training end users, handling
incidents and operating programs to secure
data, facilities and operations.
Monitoring domain contains processes
for monitoring systems, assessing the
effectiveness of security controls, and
supporting other processes. Recall that
asset evaluation is one key component in
ALE equation in the conventional risks
metrics approach we discuss earlier. In
measuring program effectiveness section
will focus on critical assets. These are
assets for which an organization possesses
zero tolerance for risks. We will not rely
on any specific asset evaluation method.
The primary control objectives for the
for the planning and organizing domain
include defined IT strategic plan and the
desired architecture. Communicating goals
and direction, assessing risks, and
managing investment in time, money, and
capital. Without proper planning the steps
the organization takes to manage IT
processes cannot be categorized as
controls because operational activities
devolved into reactive fire fighting
activities The planning and organizational
objectives keep an organization control
generally speaking from becoming out of
controls. This table shows assembling of
a suggested security metrics for processes
associated with planning and organization.
As you might expect, the scope of the
planning and organization domain is much
larger than just security, so focusing and
discussing on security requires us to
scale back the set of objectives that we
consider to be important. From the
security point of view the most important
thing to measure is how effectively the
organization assesses risks, manages
security issues associated with personnel
and manages costs. The metrics focuses on
this area primarily. For assessing risk,
the process metrics we care about most,
measures forward looking activities, we
do not need to know how well a particular
set of a security controls are functioning
At least not as a planning or organization
metrics. Instead, it is more important to
capture high level metrics that quantify
what an organization knows and does not
know about nature of risk inherent in its
infrastructure, people, and information.
Knowing what you do not know assists with
planning tasks because it identifies
potential holes in organization security
posture that affect an organization s most
critical assets. The metrics for assessed
risk control objective answer the
following questions: Do critical assets
reside on system that are comply with an
organizations security standards? Measures
a percentage of critical asset or
functions reciting uncomplying systems.
Has the organization reviewed critical
assets and functions for physical and
information security risks?
metrics such as percentage of critical
asset or functions reviewed for physical
security risks or percentage critical
asset function with documented risk
assessment
Is organization prepared to handle
compromises of critical assets? Example
metrics include percentage of critical
assets or functions with documented
mitigation plan, percentage of critical
asset function with cost of compromise
estimated. Human resource security metrics
attempt to quantify forward looking
measures of an organization s personnel.
As the expression goes, an
organization's security is only as strong
as the weakest link, and the people
have showed time again to be the weakest
link. Aligned organizational s peoples
strategies with security goals therefore
is a key control objective. Metrics for
the managed human resources control
objective attempt to answer the following
questions. A security responsibility
included in job description and assessed
during performance review metrics such as
percentage of position descriptions
defining IS roles, responsibilities,
skills, and certifications. Percentage of
job performance reviews with evaluation
of IS responsibilities and the compliance.
Does the organization face potential
downstream issues due to employees without
background checks? Measures a percentage
of users who have undergone background
checks. How well dispersed are security
responsibility
throughout organization?
metrics such as ratio of business unit
shadow security staff to core security
team staff. This last metrics, the ratio of
a shadow staff to security team staff, it
reviews much about an organization s
success in spreading around security
responsibility. Nearly all organizations
including the one you probably work
in have a centralized security group who s
job is to safeguard all information assets
At the same time, most large organizations
have discovered that they cannot rely on
just a single group of people to do
everything. The shadow ratio then, defines
a way of measuring dispersions of
responsibilities. All non-security staff
who's job contains operational security
responsibilities count toward the total.
Keeping tabs on cost, knowing what an
organization spends and why it spends it
is key. Security costs are no different
from any other kind of IT cost. Generally
this cost breakdown into two categories:
fixed cost including in-house cost that
must be paid regardless of the size of
the business, and a variable cost   those
that vary with manpower or can be scaled
up or down based on activities.
This table shows common examples of each
type. With respect to security the costs
equate to activities that operate
organization security system operational.
Implement new security control to
meet new requirements, new programs.
Get out in front of new business requirements, that are discretionary.
meet new requirements, new programs.
Get Out! In front of new business
requirements, that s discretionary.