The previous two domains, Planning & Organization, and Acquisition & Implementation,
describe how organizations can measure the parts of their security programs devoted
to building security strategies and putting in place systems to carry out those strategies.
In this section, we will study the metrics for the Delivery and Support domain-
the day-to-day control activities that comprise security operations.
Typical activities performed in the Delivery and Support domain include defining service levels
for technology operations, training users, helping customers, managing problems
and incidents, ensuring continuity of operations,
and implementing system access controls.
For the purposes of security metrics, a certain amount of overlap exists between the Delivery
and Support approach and the metrics discussed in the preceding chapter.
Program-level security metrics differ somewhat from largely technical metrics
because they cover areas that may span domains for process
and people beyond just a particular technical area.
A second difference is that the security program metrics include the "fuzzier" parts
of measurement that may not be captured by a particular piece of security widgetry.
No antivirus software, intrusion detection system,
or vulnerability scanner can possibly tell an organization whether its people possess
sufficient security training, for example.
These metrics could certainly be calculated in a straightforward and cost-effective fashion,
but they won't be obtained through an existing security system.
To keep the discussion simple we will focus on metrics
for only the most important five controls.
These focus on user training and awareness, system security, and data management.
End-user education is a cornerstone of modern thinking about information security.
It's a well-accepted truth that the more aware people are of their responsibilities as users
of computer systems, the more likely they are to exercise due caution
and care in their day-to-day activities.
Heightened awareness leads to better practices; better practices should result
in fewer security incidents, decreased susceptibility to infiltration by outsiders,
and (for the engineers) higher-quality systems design.
Thus, security awareness and training metrics should answer these questions:
Are employees acknowledging their security responsibilities
as users of information systems?
(Metric: % new employees completing security awareness training) Are employees receiving
training at intervals consistent with company policies?
(Metric: % existing employees completing refresher training per policy) Do security
staff members possess sufficient skills and professional certifications?
(Metric: % security staff with professional security certifications) Are security staff
members acquiring new skills at rates consistent with management objectives?
(Metrics: # security skill mastered, average per employee and per security team member,
fulfillment rate of target external security training workshops
and classroom seminars) Are security awareness
and training efforts leading to measurable results?
(Metrics: By business unit or office, correlation of password strength
with the elapsed time since training classes; by business unit or office,
correlation of tailgating rate with training latency) One of the key components
of the Delivery and Support domain is ensuring system security.
Thus, when considering process metrics
to measure how effectively an organization ensures security, entitlements (who has access
to what) figure prominently in the discussion.
Pertinent questions to ask, and the metrics that answer these questions, include the following:
How consistently does the organization implement principles of accountability?
(Metrics: % active user IDs assigned to only one person,
% systems implementing account lockout policy,
systems/applications verifying password policy) How pervasive is the principle
of role-based access to systems?
(Metric: % information assets with role-based security assignments) Does the organization
segregate responsibility for production systems to prevent change control problems?
(Metric: % roles, systems, and applications implementing segregation of duties
in production systems) What users possess a significant amount
of privileged access to information systems?
(Metrics: % users with authorized system access to more than one critical system,
"high-risk" users with application and system access on the same system,
% users with authorized access to security software) Does the organization review
employee entitlements?
(Metrics: % of highly privileged employees whose privileges were reviewed this period,
% directory accounts dormant or disabled) Is the business at risk from terminated employees,
especially those with privileged access?
(Metrics: cycle time to remove terminated or inactive users, cycle time to deprovision users
by system type, % inactive user accounts disabled per policy,
terminated user accounts disabled per policy) These questions
and suggested metrics should be taken as a starting point for a fuller discussion
of security entitlements within organizations identification and allocation
of security costs means understanding how much money the organization spends
on securing its systems.
It also means measuring expenses associated with managing security incidents.
Metrics that quantify these issues ought to answer these questions:
What do the security systems managed
by the organization cost relative to top-line business activities?
(Metric: cost of security for revenue-generating systems) How much
of the operational security budget ties back to business activities?
(Metric: % security costs charged back
to business units) How significant was the cost impact of security incidents?
(Metrics: estimated damage [$] from all security incidents, % security incidents
that did not cause damage beyond policy thresholds)