If the Planning and Organization control domain describes what an organization must do,
the Acquisition and Implementation domain begins to answer the question of how.
This domain contains all the activities relating to acquiring, provisioning,
and implementing information systems and their associated controls Acquisition
and Implementation processes turn the organization's high-level strategy
and objectives into reality.
These processes focus on how an organization defines and documents requirements
for the software it uses, acquires or develops solutions to meet those requirements,
creates appropriate control processes and procedures,
and manages changes to infrastructure and processes.
Security metrics for the "identify solutions" control objective should ask the following
questions: - How frequently are security teams engaged when business units draw
up requirements for new information systems?
(Metrics: # security team consultations by business units,
% new systems with initial security consultations) -
How much attention do business units pay to customer requirements
when planning a new information system?
(Metrics: # consultations with security teams by externally facing applications teams,
# customer consultations with security teams) - How often are business units requiring controls
that ensure that customer information managed
by new systems cannot be tampered with by unauthorized parties?
(Metric: % coverage of integrity controls for data exchanged with customers/ partners) -
How often are business units requiring controls that ensure the confidentiality
of customer information managed by new systems?
(Metric: % coverage of confidentiality controls for data exchanged
with customers/partners) Bringing systems online successfully requires discipline, training,
documentation, and effective project planning.
Organizations must also ensure that they install information systems correctly,
that system owners understand and accept the risks associated with these systems,
and that installed systems demonstrably comply with prevailing security standards.
We refer to these latter two concepts as processes for accrediting
and certifying information systems.
Accreditation means that the owner of a system has ascertained the security risk associated
with a system and has agreed to accept any residual risk
that existing controls cannot transfer or mitigate.
Fundamentally, accreditation of a system means
that the owner is accountable for residual risks.
Certification, on the other hand, refers to something deeper than the act of accepting risk.
Certification of a system means that a trusted party (internal
or external) has tested the security controls of an installed system and has judged
that it meets organizational security standards.
Security measures for the "install and accredit solutions
and changes" answer the following questions: Do information systems adhere
to organizational security standards?
(Metric: % systems with security certifications) Have the owners
of information systems agreed to, and accepted, security risks?
(Metrics: % systems with security accreditations, % accredited externally facing
and customer-related applications) Has the organization included security
in the costs of new systems?
(Metric: %information systems with built-in security costs) Systems do not run themselves;
they usually require people.
Those people need to know what they are supposed to be doing: how to operate the systems they use
in their day-today work, how to fix problems they encounter,
and what steps to take to keep the system safe.
The tangible forms that instructions take for keeping systems up and running go by many names,
such as "procedures," "work instructions," and "operational controls."
Regardless of the name used, these instructions typically describe: Procedures for starting
and stopping the system Day-to-day operational responsibilities and tasks Availability policy
and expected service level Monitoring
and oversight responsibilities Problem management processes Business continuity
and disaster recovery instructions Technical architecture Security responsibilities
for users and operators Data security policy System ownership