Information is the lifeblood of the modern firm.
The word "data" denotes all forms of information
that can ultimately be distilled into bits and bytes.
Data are either at rest (stored in RAM or on disk) or in motion (being transmitted
from a sending party to a receiver).
Understanding data's direction, magnitude, and sensitivity is an important discipline
for information security programs.
However, few organizations have any idea of how much information they own, send, or receive.
Not all data are created equal.
Thus, while companies need to understand the broad contours of the data they own
or are custodians for, they also need to understand exactly
which of these bits are the most sensitive.
Data handling becomes particularly important
when sensitive information flows outside the organization,
either through a contractual arrangement with a third party,
or via a customer-facing medium like a website or portal.
Security metrics for data should measure the amount of data flowing
into and out of the organization.
They should also identify the amount of potentially "toxic" data
that must be monitored, handled properly, and contained.
And they should attempt to capture key process indicators for high-risk situations
where sensitive information passes from the custodianship
of the organization to an outside party.
Therefore, here are some questions to ask: How much information is flowing
into the organization on a daily, monthly, and yearly basis?
(Metric: data flow, such as bytes sent to and received by customers, external employees,
vendors, partners) How much sensitive customer information does the company manage?
(Metric: toxicity rate of customer data [# of records containing PII] and ratio of same
to all data records) How safe are storage media entrusted to third parties?
(Metrics: % backup media stored with third parties,
% backup media successfully delivered) Are media assets decommissioned properly
to remove traces of sensitive data?
(Metric: % media sanitized prior to disposal) How quickly can the organization respond
to complaints from employees and customers about potential data privacy or integrity problems?
(Metric: # data privacy escalations, and estimated time/cost to fix) In summary,
organizations need to get a handle on the data they create, use, and manage on behalf
of their shareholders, partners, and customers.
No man, or organization, is an island.
Every company and government branch maintains ongoing business relationships
with outside parties for services.
Every one of these parties represents a potential threat
to an organization's security-at least in theory.
Thus, every information security management program needs to understand the amount and type
of access third parties have to information resources,
and the degree of control the organization can exert over this access.
Third-party access, like every other type of user access,
goes through several distinct phases, starting with requirements,
and then moving on to provisioning, and then monitoring, and eventually revocation.
To measure the effectiveness of programs for managing third-party access,
we need to answer questions that uncover the key performance indicators throughout the
life cycle.
Thus, metrics ought to answer the following questions: How quickly are requests for access
by third parties vetted and approved?
(Metric: % third-party applicants successfully vetted
within service standards) Once approval is granted,
how quickly can the organization grant access to third party applicants?
(Metric: cycle time to grant, and revoke, customer/partner access
to company systems) Does the organization understand what security controls are needed
for third-party access?
(Metric: % strategic partner/third-party agreements
with documented security requirements)
To what extent do third parties implement the correct security controls appropriate
to their level of access?
(Metrics: % third-party agreements requiring external validation of procedures;
% of third parties satisfactorily completing external audits,
such as HIPPA requirements) How frequently are the access rights of third parties reviewed?
(Metric: % third party users whose privileges reviewed this period) Are third-party
applications authorized?
(Metric: # authorized [and unauthorized] customer/partner transactions, by application)