As mentioned previously, security effectiveness and change control share a natural affinity.
A critical component of any effective security program is the process used
to monitor information systems for deviations against standards.
These standards include not just the defined security policies an organization might have,
but also the accepted threshold for controlled change within the organization.
Without change controls, security monitoring processes become much less effective.
Therefore, to monitor the effectiveness of monitoring processes,
organizations should strive to answer these key questions:
To what extent does the organization monitor the security of its information systems?
(Metric: % systems with monitored event
and activity logs) Is the organization monitoring systems that contain customer data?
(Metric: % customer-facing and Internet-facing systems with monitored event
and activity logs) To what extent are systems monitored for changes to their configuration?
(Metric: %systems monitored for deviations against approved configurations) Monitoring
and evaluating system security often centers around assurance activities.
Assurance is defined as "a positive declaration intended to give confidence; a promise."
In the context of information security, then, independent assurance denotes declarations made
by third parties that security controls work as advertised.
Assurances are another form of "trust but verify" in action.
Assurance activities often include nontechnical activities like reviews
of process documentation, system walkthroughs, data-center tours,
and interviews with systems owners, business units, and IT operations.
Technical assurance activities-
control testing-commonly include penetration tests and system vulnerability scans.
Key questions answered by independent assurance activities, and the metrics related to them,
include these: On systems for which independent assurance is needed,
are security controls working as designed?
(Metrics: % critical systems reviewed for compliance with controls,
% systems with at least one serious deficiency) Are electronic communications
with third parties secured from tampering, interception, and attacks?
(Metric: % third-party relationships reviewed for compliance) How effective is the process
for independently testing security controls?
(Metric: % controls working as designed) How much money is the organization spending
on assurance activities?
(Metric: cost of assurance activities per system) Most enterprises are subject
to regulatory guidelines and statutes: Public Company Accounting Reform
and Investor Protection Act of 2002 (also known
as Sarbanes-Oxley) Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
of 1993 (HIPAA) Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Services Modernization Act
of 1999 (GLBA) Organizations are also often bound contractually to adhere
to certain industry standards such as the Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data
Security Standard.
To comply with regulations and contracts,
organizations in many industries typically commission (or find themselves receiving)
formal audits.
In contrast to assurance activities, which target the verification
of particular technical controls, audits examine how well an organization implements those
controls in compliance with the statute or contract.
They also look for evidence of people bypassing controls.
Audits differ primarily from assurance activities in that they reside squarely
within the legal realm rather than the technical.
Thus, when measuring audit processes, try using metrics oriented toward process questions
like these: How much time and effort are security staff spending
on audit-related activities?
(Metrics: # regulatory audits completed,
time/cost spent on audit activities) Have audits uncovered serious weaknesses
in existing controls?
(Metrics: % security compliance reviews with material weaknesses,
% key external requirements compliant per external audit) How much time
and effort are security staff spending fixing problems uncovered by audits?
(Metrics: # pending deficiencies and estimated time/cost to complete,
time/cost spent on remediation activities) Have audit activities uncovered problems
with controls that would affect customer trust or privacy?
(Metric: # pending customer-related deficiencies and estimated time/cost to complete)