>> There are numerous risk assessment and management methodologies and tools,
and each has its own advantages and disadvantages.
In general, they all require organizational discipline to convene a multidisciplinary team,
define assets, list threats, evaluate controls,
and conclude with an estimate of the risk magnitude.
We'll go over a few here that were developed for managing risks in information systems.
National Institute of Standards and Technology, NIST methodology.
Risk management framework, RMF, is the U.S. Federal Government's standard and described
in the NIST Special Publication 800-30.
This methodology is primarily designed to be qualitative
and is based upon skilled security analysts working with the system owners
and technical experts to thoroughly identify, evaluate, and manage risk in IT systems.
The process is extremely comprehensive, covering everything from threat source identification
to ongoing evaluation and assessment.
NIST IMF consists of nine steps.
Step one, system characterization.
Step two, threat identification.
Three, vulnerability identification.
Four, control analysis.
Five, likelihood determination.
Six, impact analysis.
Seven, risk determination.
Then, control recommendations.
The last is result documentation.
Due to its brevity and focus on more concrete components, such as systems,
makes it a good candidate for organizations new to risk assessment.
OCTAVE. The Software Engineering Institute, SEI, at Carnegie Mellon University,
developed the Operationally Critical Threat, Asset,
and Vulnerability Evaluation, OCTAVE, O-C-T-A-V-E, process.
The main goal in developing OCTAVE is to help organizations improve their ability to manage
and protect themselves from information security risks.
OCTAVE is workshop based rather than tool based.
This means that rather than including extensive security expertise in a tool,
the participants in the risk assessment need to understand the risk and its components.
The workshop-based approach espouses the principle
that organization will understand the risk better than a tool
and that decision will be made by the organization rather than by a tool.
There are three phases of workshops.
This one gathers knowledge about important asset, threats,
and protection strategies from senior managers.
In this phase, there are the following processes.
Process one, identify senior management knowledge.
Process two, identify operational error management knowledge.
Process three, identify staff knowledge.
Process four, creative threat profiles.
In phase two, we gather knowledge from operational error managers.
It consists two process steps.
Process five, identify key components.
Process six, evaluate selected components.
In the phase three, gathers knowledge from staff.
Phase three consists of the following processes.
Process seven, conduct risk analysis.
Process eight, develop protection strategy.
And this is include Workshop A, Strategy Development; Workshop B,
Strategy Review; and a revision approval.
These activities produce a view of risk that takes the entire organization's viewpoints
into account while minimizing the time of the individual participants.
The outputs of the OCTAVE process are protection strategy, mitigation plan, and action list.
Comparing to NIST RMF, OCTAVE uses slightly different terminology
but follows a similar structure, where OCTAVE provides a wealth of forms,
but NIST RMF is relatively straightforward to follow.
The facilitated risk assessment process, FRAP, is the creation of Thomas Peltier.
It is based upon implementing risk management techniques in a highly cost-effective way.
FRAP uses formal qualitative risk analysis methodologies using vulnerability analysis,
hazard impact analysis, threat analysis, and group discussions and questionnaires
through a facilitator and a small group of subject expertise.
Moreover, FRAP is faster and simpler than other qualitative methods,
since it stresses pre-screening systems
and only performing formal risk assessment on systems when warranted.
Lastly, FRAP ties risk to impact using the business impact analysis
as a basis for determining impact.
Thomas Peltier has written a book on FRAP, and several consulting companies, including RSA
and Peltier Associates, teach FRAP.
The Consultative, Objective and Bi-functional Risk Analysis, COBRA,
process was originally created by C&A Systems Security in 1991.
It takes the approach that risk assessment is a business issue rather than a technical issue.
It consists of tools that can be purchased and then utilized to perform self-assessments
of risk while drawing on expert knowledge embedded in the tools.
The primary knowledge bases are IT security.
This is default database.
Operational risk.
Quick risk or high-level risk.
E-Security.
And there are two primary products -- Risk Consultant and ISO Compliance.
Risk Consultant is a tool with knowledge bases and built-in templates that allow the user
to create questionnaires to gather the information about the types of asset,
vulnerabilities, threats, and controls.
From this information, Risk Consultant can create reports
and make recommendations, which can then be customized.
ISO Compliance is similar, only this product is focused
on the ISO 17799 and ISO 27000 compliance.
Risk Watch is another tool that uses an expert knowledge database to walk the user
through a risk assessment and provide reports on compliance
as well as advice on managing the risk.
Risk Watch includes statistical information to support quantitative risk assessment,
allowing the user to show return on investment, ROI, for various strategies.
Risk Watch has several products -- SecureWatch, CyberWatch, ComplianceWatch.
Each focuses along different compliance needs, such as HIPAA; banking; payment card, PCI;
nuclear cybersecurity compliances.
There are products based on these standards, which is for U.S. Government, ISO 17799, HIPAA,
and financial institution standards.
In Measuring and Managing Information Risk: A FAIR Approach, authors Dr. Jack Freund
and Jack Jones have written a magnificent book that provides a new perspective for you
to think about deal with IT risk.
FAIR is a methodology and a quantitative analysis tool.
The goal of FAIR is to enable the risk practitioner
to make well-informed decisions based on meaningful measurements.
While that seems obvious, in practicality, it is challenging endeavor.
FAIR takes the risk professional out of the realm of the dealing
with risk via the checklist, which sometimes served to produce meaningless measurements,
into the world of quantitative, defendable results.
For those that are looking for tools to create pretty executive summary charts with lots
of color, FAIR will slowly disappoint them.
For those that are looking for method to understand how to calculate qualitative risk
to support a formal enterprise risk management program,
they won't find a better guide than this book.
The author writes in the preface that the book is not about checklists
and formulas but about critical thinking.
The biggest objections to quantitative risk management are that IT risk
or InfoSec risk cannot be measured or it's simply unknowable.
The authors here agree that risk cannot be measured at the micro level,
but it can be effectively measured to the degree to reduce management's uncertainty about risk.
They also importantly know that risk is a forward-looking statement
about what may or come to pass in the future.
With that, perfect accuracy is impossible.
But effective quantitative risk management is very possible.
FAIR is an effort to shift risk management paradigm from a compliance-based
to a risk-based approach, especially for InfoSec risk and IT risk.