>> Let's have a brief overview on a few frameworks
and standards related with IT risk management.
This resource could play important role for cybersecurity professionals
in understanding what practices, guidelines, and frameworks are out there to leverage.
ISACA's COBIT and ISO 27001 and 27002 are IT management and security frameworks
that require organizations to have a risk management program.
Both offer but don't require their own versions of risk management frameworks.
COBIT has Risk IT, and ISO has ISO 27005 to 2008.
They recommend repeatable methodologies and specify when risk assessment should take place.
In general, all the frameworks have similar approaches,
but differ in their high-level goals.
OCTAVE, NIST, and ISO 27005 focus on security risk assessment, while Risk IT applies
to the broader IT risk management space.
Here is a brief background for COBIT framework.
ISACA, previously known as the Information Systems Audit and Control Association,
it provides practical guidance, benchmarks, and other effective tools for IT governance,
security, audit, and assurance in all enterprises that use information systems.
Now, ISACA serves 140,000 IT professional in 180 countries.
COBIT is an IT governance framework
and supporting tool set developed by ISACA for IT auditors.
It is a framework for evaluating security and controls over information.
It provides over 200 IT and application controls across many high-level IT processes and domains.
It does not reference any specific tech knowledge, and it is very process focused.
It is actually broader [inaudible] than the information security by itself.
It looks at all IT-related process, focus on the bigger picture of how IT supports organization,
such as IT is aligned with the business, IT enables the business and maximize benefits,
IT resources are used responsibly, IT risk are managed appropriately.
It is designed to support executive and management boards,
business and IT management governance, assurance, control, and security professionals.
The ISO 27000 series is designed to deal with the security, while COBIT encompasses all of IT.
Consequently, the IT assessments risk assessment required by each corresponding to those scopes.
In other words, risk assessment in COBIT described in Risk IT goes beyond security risks
and includes development, business continuity, and other types of operational risk in IT,
whereas ISO 27005 concentrates on security exclusively.
ISO 27005 follows a similar structure to NIST, but defines terms differently.
The framework, see the diagram, includes step such as the context establishment,
risk identification and estimation, in which threats, vulnerability,
and controls are considered, and the risk analysis tab that discusses
and documents threat likelihood and business impact.
ISO 27005 includes [inaudible] with forms and examples, but like other risk frameworks,
it is up to the organization implementing it to evaluate or quantify risk in ways
that are relevant to its particular business.
Organizations that do not have a formal risk assessment [inaudible] would do well
to review the risk assessment requirements in ISO 27001 and 27002,
and consider the 27005 or NIST approach.
The ISO standards provide a good justification for formal risk assessment,
and outline requirements, while the NIST document provides a good introduction
to risk assessment framework.