>> Risk management is an ongoing, iterative, and evolving process, and each iteration breaks
into three phases; risk assessment, risk mitigation, and risk evaluation.
It has a continuous and repeatable life cycle, as illustrated here.
Inside a risk assessment, first is to identify the risk and its components, such as threats,
vulnerability, and access within a well-defined scope.
Then, identify the risk, such as the likelihood, and analyze the impact.
The purpose of a risk assessment is to form a comprehensive description of risks,
determine this risk according to their impact significance, and rank them based
on business strategy and imperatives.
Let's use an example here.
In IT security, vulnerability scan, such as penetration test, is a tool to identify
and analyze the flaws that may allow the malicious attack passing
organization's parameters.
But, in order to determine if such a flaw really poses a problem
for the organization is called vulnerability assessment,
which is the second part of risk assessment phase.
The vulnerability assessment sets the result of a scan into the context of the organization,
then analyze the impact and assigns an urgency level.
Therefore, in risk assessment phase, it generally uses a structured approach
that is repeatable via a common set of [inaudible] and a matrix.
Because it cannot be compared with other assessment outside of the organization,
as long as the structure of the assessment and the matrix used
to quantify the result are not standardized.
But, managing risk requires more than understanding
where your risk lies, and what impact it will have.
You also need to proactively determine what to do about each risk you identified.
If your risk assessment shows that you have unacceptable levels of risk to your business,
then you need take some actions to account for them.
This is the risk mitigation phase, and this is also at the core of decision-making
that drives the resource prioritization and allocation.
It regards the decisions on how to counter the unacceptable risk
that include recommending countermeasures or controls to reduce the risks
and conduct cost-benefit analysis for each countermeasure
and prioritize the implementation plan for those controls.
Examples of controls include policies, procedures, guidelines, technical solutions,
or organization structures, which can be administrative, technical,
managemental, or legal in nature.
After these controls are implemented and deployed, we enter into the third phase,
risk evaluation is to continue monitoring the risk
and analyze the effectiveness of the deployed controls.
If the risks have been mitigated to the acceptable level,
this controls are deemed as effective.
When the control are ineffective, or new risk are emergent,
next round of risk assessment will then kick off, and so on and so forth.
So, in summary, risk management is a rigorous discipline that build upon a set of principles,
consistent terminologies, and the matrix, in an iterative, proactive structure process.
Organizations have approached security risk management with various approaches.
In the past, many organization are introduced to security risk management by the necessity
of responding to a relatively small security incident,
such as staff member's computer becomes infected with a virus,
for example, as an reactive approach.
Instant response process is a example of such approach.
Typically, when a incident occurs, first you need to contain the damage, assess damage,
and then determine the cause, repair the damages, then review response
and update policies or procedures.
This means that an organization that takes time to respond to security incidents in a calm
and a rational manner while determining the underlying reasons that allowed the incident
to transpire would be better able to both protect itself from similar problems
in the future, and let it respond more quickly to other issues that may arise.
The ways to determine the cause include review system configuration, patch level, system locks,
audit locks, and audit trails on both the systems that were directly affected,
as well as network devices that route traffic to them.
These reviews often help you to discover where the attack originated in the system,
and what other resources are affected.
When it is not possible to assess the damage in a timely manner,
you should implement a contingency plan
so that normal business operations and productivity can continue.
In recent years, as the volume and the frequency of cybersecurity incidents increase,
huge amount of historical data have been gathered which dramatically help an organization
to better predict and prepare for unforeseen problems that arise in the future,
through anomaly detection, for instance.
So, it should not completely forsake incident response.
We'll cover this more in data-driven security analytics unit.
The second category of risk management approaches are proactive with a goal to prevent
or prepare for the future incident ahead of time.
Inside this category, there are two distinct ways to characterize the risk.
One is based on the quantitative research assessment.
The other is on qualitative research assessment.
Risk is assessed by identifying threats and the vulnerability,
then determining the likelihood and impact for each risk.
This is a complex undertaking, usually based on imperfect information.
So, risk assessments involve processing a large quantity of data, often hundreds
or even thousands of accident scenarios must be evaluate to estimate the risk of an operation.
Risk analysts should consider the level of detail needed
in the risk results before starting the risk assessment process.
There are many methodologies aimed at allowing risk assessment
to be repeatable and provide consistent results.
Quantitative risk assessment draws upon methodologies used
by financial institutions and insurance companies.
By assigning values to information systems, business processes, recovery costs, etc.,
impact, and therefore risk, can be measured in terms of direct and indirect cost.
Quantitative risk characterization methods provide decision-makers
with precise description of risk.
However, this method often involve detailed studies that are very resource-intensive,
and require substantial level of experience and expertise among analysis team members.
Also, be careful not to confuse precise description of risk with the accuracy
or certainty of those descriptions.
Two common forms of quantitative risk characterizations are point risk estimates.
An analyst team uses historical data from directly related operational experience,
expert judgment, and data published from other applications of similar equipment
or human activities to estimate first the frequency
of initiating events for various accident scenarios.
Second, the probability of a failure for each control, the effect of consequence,
often measured in cost or injuries or death, is also estimated.
Probability distribution.
A risk assessment team assigns probability distributions to reflect the possible range
of event frequencies, probabilities,
and a consequence that may be applicable for a specific assessment.
This method is more robust than simply selecting point estimates, as described above,
because uncertainty associated with each key frequencies, probability,
or consequence number is modeled.
We'll give an overview of this method in next unit.
Quantitative risk management is the standard way of measuring risk in many fields,
such as a financial institution or insurance.
>> Based on the quantitative assessment, risks can be prioritized by financial impact
and asset financial values,
and this quantitative result can facilitate risk management by return on security investment.
Furthermore, accuracy tends to increase over time,
as the organization builds historical data while gaining experiences.
However, with the immense scale of today's open and highly interconnected cyberspace,
there's so many unknown and diverse factors, such as global operations,
geopolitical tensions, business partner relationship may contribute to the likelihood
of any cyberthreat, and the cost of damages, like loss or disruption it may cause,
are extremely difficult to measure.
Another disadvantage is that there is no formal and rigorous way to effective calculate values
for asset and controls, and it is also quite costly and time-consuming
to conduct quantitative assessment.
Therefore, quantitative assessment is not commonly used
to measure risk in information system today.
Qualitative risk assessment assume that there's already a great degree of uncertainty
in the likelihood and impact values, and defines them,
and then risks in somewhat subjective or qualitative terms.
Similar to the issues in quantitative risk assessment, the great difficulty
in qualitative risk assessment is defining the likelihood and impact values.
Moreover, this value need to be defined in a manner that allows the same scales
to be consistently used across multiple risk assessment.
Qualitative risk assessment is usually conducted through a combination of questionnaires
and collaborative workshops involving people from a variety of disciplines
or groups within the organization.
The results of qualitative risk assessments are inherently more difficult
to concisely communicate to management.
Qualitative risk assessment typically give risk result high, moderate, and low,
or a scale from one to five based on expert's subjective estimation on likelihood and impact.
However, by providing the impact and likelihood definition tables and the description
of the impact, it is possible to adequately communicate assessment
to the organization's management.
As illustrated here, it is the risk matrix,
a widely used approach in security risk assessment.
The horizontal axis is likelihood of occurrence, and vertical is impact.
Both are rated subjectively by human expert on a one to five scale.
This two values are used to plot this risk matrix, which then further divided
into sections of low, medium, and high risks.
Events with high likelihood and high impact would be the upper right high-risk corner,
while those with low likelihood and a low impact would be in the opposite low-risk corner.
The idea is that the higher the score, the more important something is,
and the sooner you should address it.
This straightforward and intuitive representation enables great visibility
and understanding of risk ranking, especially for people who are not expert on security.
It is easier to reach consensus, but the drawback is
that it provides insufficient differentiations between important risks and difficult
to justify investment in control implementation
because there's no basis for cost-benefit analysis.
The results from qualitative assessment methods are dependent
on the quality of the risk management team.
Recall that the purpose of assessing risk is to assist decision-makers
in determining where to direct resources.
There are four basic strategies for managing risks; mitigation,
transference, acceptance, avoidance.
For each risk in the risk assessment report, a risk management strategy must be devised
and that reduce the risk to an acceptable level for a acceptable cost.
Mitigation is the most commonly considered risk management strategy.
It involves fixing the flaw and providing some type of compensatory controls
to reduce the likelihood or the impact associated with the flaw.
A common mitigation for technical security flaw is to install a patch provided by the vendor.
Sometimes, the process of determining mitigation strategy is called control analysis.
Transference is a process of allowing another party to accept the risk on your behalf,
like a car, health, and life insurance are all ways to transfer risk.
In this cases, risk is transferred from the individual to a pool
of insurance holders, including the insurance company.
Note that this does not decrease the likelihood or fix any flaws,
but it does reduce the overall impact, primarily financial impact, on organization.
Recently, cyber-insurance is gaining momentum, as more demands from business and individuals
to seek protection from internet-based risks.
Acceptance is the practice of simply allowing the system to operate with a known risk.
Many low risks are simply accepted.
Risks that can have extremely high cost to mitigate are also often accepted.
Be aware of high risks being accepted by management.
Insure that the strategy is in writing, and accepted by the managers making the decision.
Often, risks are accepted that should not have been accepted,
and then when the penetration occurs, the IT security personnel are held responsible.
So, typically, business managers, not IT security personnel, are the ones authorized
to accept risk on behalf of an organization.
Avoidance is the practice of removing the vulnerable aspect
of the system, or even the system itself.
For instance, during a risk assessment, a website was uncovered
that let vendors view their invoices using a vendor ID embedded in the html filename
as the identification, and no authentication authorization per vendor.
When notified about web pages and the risk to the organization, management decided
to remove the web pages and provide vendor invoices via another mechanism.
So, in this case, the risk was avoided by removing the vulnerable web pages.