>> Risk assessment step one.
Threat identification.
Threat is the potential for an actor or threat source to exercise either accidental trigger
or intentional exploit a specific vulnerability.
Both threat sources and threats must be identified to ensure accurate assessment.
Usually threat contains three parts.
Threat sources, threat occurrence rate, or likelihood of frequency.
Threat impact, its formula ALE equal V times L. V is the value of asset.
ALE stands for annual loss exposure.
Example. You have a $3 million data center located in the Florida area.
A major flaw that could destroy the data center occurs once every 100 years.
So V is $3 million.
Likelihood, L, is 0.01.
Estimate ALE is at $30,000.
Actors, motivations, and threats.
Actors like external hacker or [inaudible] motivated by curiosity, ego.
Threat such as system hacking or social engineering.
Internal hacker motivated by financial gain or disenchantment.
Inside the threat such as a fraud, poor documentation.
Cyber [inaudible] motivated by profit or ideology.
Combat threats like distributed denial services, DDS [phonetic], fishing, ransom ware,
credit card fraud, cyber stalking.
Nation [inaudible] hacker motivated by power or revenge.
Threats like critical infrastructure attacks multi stage, multi vector attacks.
Poorly trained employee due to unintentional errors.
Threat example like corruption of the data, malicious code introduced.
Cracker motivated by monetary gain are authorized data alteration.
Threats like social engineering, system intrusion, impersonation.
Individuals who understand organization, industry, what type of system or better
yet all three are key in identifying threats.
Once the general list of threats has been compiled,
review it with those most knowledgeable about the system, organization,
or industry to gain a list of threats that applies to the systems.
It is valuable to compile a list of threats that are present across the organization
and use this list as the basis for all risk management activities.
As a major consideration of risk management is to ensure consistency and repeatability,
an organizational threat list is invaluable.
Organizations face an evolving threat scenario that they are ill prepared to deal with.
Threats that have -- that pass the traditional security protection techniques
and [inaudible] are detected on their system.
This is a quote from [inaudible] 2012.
Verizon's 2015 data breach investigation report, DBIR, estimated a financial loss
of over $400 million from 700 million compromised records
which resulted from 79 security incidents.
New threat landscape.
Nature of threats are changing.
Damage of [inaudible] from disruption caused by worms and viruses to cyber crime by spyware
or bots to large scale cyber espionage by [inaudible] persistent threats,
zero day targeted attacks, and dynamic trojans, stealth bots.
Today's attacks are sophisticated and successful.
Intruders are more prepared and organized.
Attack attribution on the internet is incredibly difficult.
Intruder tools are increasingly sophisticated yet easy to use.
Required intruder knowledge going down and highly motivated attackers
since attack needs to be succeed only once.
Defense need to be right every single time.
Due to the increasing adoption of cloud and mobile devices
in enterprise, network parameter dissolving.
Existing detection techniques failed in the following attacks
such as coordinated persistent threat hackers.
Dynamic polymorphic malware.
Multi vector attacks, multi state attacks.
In today's rapidly evolving threat landscape, the traditional checklist approach won't be able
to keep up and provide timely support for new threat detection and prevention.
Threat intelligence either as a service or tool has received a lot of attention lately.
Simply put, threat intelligent is the knowledge
that helps you identify security threats and make informed decisions.
Threat intelligence can help you solve the following problems.
How do I keep up-to-date an overwhelming amount of information
and security threats including bad actors, methods, vulnerabilities, and targets?
How do I get more proactive about future security threats?
How do I inform my leaders about the dangers and the [inaudible] of specific security threats?
Threat intelligence falls into two categories.
Operational intelligence is produced
by computers whereas strategically intelligence is produced by human analysts.
The two types of threat intelligent are heavily interdependent and they both rely on the skilled
and experienced human analysis to develop and maintain.
Operational intelligence is produced entirely by computers from data identification
and collection through to enrichment and analysis.
A common example of a rational threat intelligence is automatically detection
of distributed deny of service, DDOS, attacks whereby a comparison between indicator
of compromises and the net [inaudible] is used
to identify attacks much more quickly than the human analyst could.
Strategic intelligence focuses on the much more difficult and the cumbersome process
of identifying and analyzing threat to an organization's core asset including employees,
customers, infrastructures, applications, and vendors.
To achieve this highly skilled human analysts are required to develop external relationship
and proprietary information sources.
Identify trends.
Educate the employees and the customers.
Study attack [inaudible] techniques and procedures, TPP [phonetic].
And ultimately make the defensive architecture recommendations necessary
to combat identify threats.
A common example of a strategic intelligence is the use of a threat actor, TTPs [phonetic],
to inform proactive security measure such as enhanced vulnerability and the patch management
or comprehensive security awareness training.