>> Let's start again.
Enter the key components and detail stats in security risk management framework.
We'll begin with the first phase, risk assessment.
Usually risk assessment process can be triggered by various reasons, big or small,
such as to support a business decision.
Like migrating our customer database to the cloud platform
or launching an e-commerce operation.
Or adding a mobile messaging app in our customer contact center.
A major data breach incident reported on the news headline need to answer questions raised
by our company's senior management team.
Will we be breached?
Are we better or worse?
Did we spend enough on the right risks?
An alert, a warning was reported
from our continuous monitoring process due to increased risk level.
A preschedule checkpoint for compliance requirements.
This triggering reason defines the purpose and the scope of the risk management program.
And who is owner or sponsor?
Ground zero.
Define the scope, asset, and team.
Begin with identifying the sponsor to define what is to be accomplished,
what questions to be answered, business operations or processes
such as e-commerce, supply chain management.
This is application such as a payroll processing, human resource management,
information assets such as the customer data, credit card information.
Physical assets such as server, data center, sub network, corporate [inaudible].
Data gathering approach such as a questionnaire or data gathering template.
Workshop and brainstorming.
Here are the [inaudible] for constructing questions or brainstorming.
Ask intentionally open ended questions and use to spark discussions.
Keep the discussion focused on information security or cyber security or IT security.
Ask questions around common features like policy,
procedure, scope, past security incidence.
Usually provide reason why you ask this or that question.
You know that you communicate your purpose of data gathering.
Questionnaire examples will gather [inaudible] business risks scenarios are what is the most
important information you deal with?
What are the most important transactions you perform?
What assistance you rely on the most?
If you get a hold of it, what information would you most like to know about your competitor?
Which of the following is true about your asset
such as information, transaction, or application?
It gets shared with partners.
It gets accessed by remote workers.
It gets managed manually by non-centralized team.
It is not subject to regular review.
It gets managed by third party.
Information asset classification.
Three general purpose asset classes.
High business impact, HBI.
For example authentication credential.
Highly sensitive business materials, financial profiles, medical profiles,
personally identifiable information, asset subject to specific regulatory requirements.
Moderate business impact, MBI.
For example internal business information such as the employee director,
network infrastructure designs, information internal websites.
Low business impact, LBI.
For example organization structure, [inaudible] cryptographic keys, product procedures,
white papers, obsolete business information, [inaudible] access
to publicly accessible web pages.
Additional references for information asset classification.
[Inaudible] special publications 800-60 workshops,
federal information processing standard, FIPS publication 199.
Deliverables for the staff.
Reach agreement with owners on what assessment is to review and [inaudible] parameters.
Assessment scope statement.
Asset specifications and the classifications.
Team members with defined roles and responsibility.
A typical team formation for risk management program include the following four key roles
and corresponding responsibilities.
First, senior management role.
This could be the stakeholder, decision maker, the sponsor, the risk management program.
Who is responsible to incorporate results of risk management program
into the decision making process.
Properly allocate resources and fund capability development.
Second role, information security professional.
This could be an [inaudible] analyst who is responsible
for organization security program including risk management.
The person will be held liable if internal controls are not adequate.
And has skills and knowledge in determining the probability of impact
or the risk magnitude on business assets.
Third role, system and information owner.
This could be a person from business unit that own customer transaction data or owner
of the mobile payment application, for example.
This role responsible for determining the value of information asset.
Ensuring the proper controls are in place to address information, CIA [phonetic] probability.
The person also has a key role in asset classification policy and has authority
and responsibility for making cost benefit decisions.
Information technology engineering and operation, this is the fourth role,
are the personnel responsible for designing and implementing technical solutions
and estimating engineering costs.
Design and implement operational components of solution and estimate operating costs.
Here is an example of defined scope and asset for e-commerce operation risk assessment.
In this assessment, the asset is identified as a consumer's personal identifiable information
which include usernames, passwords, account information such as a credit,
debit card numbers, address, phone number, email,
and if you noted the second asset information in transit
that is the purchase transaction information in transition from web page to web server then
to database server is also in scope.
The diagram illustrate the system architecture of this e-commerce operation
which include an e-commerce web server, firewall,
the database server inside the firewall which also connected with other internal computers.
This architecture diagram defines the boundary of the environment
in which the identified asset will be transitioning and stored.
This table illustrate the classification
of the identified assets along street [phonetic] properties.
Confidentiality, integrity, and availability.
It provides a [inaudible] asset classification scheme
which can help more targeted risk assessment and control recommendations.
For instance, password is classified as HBI for all CIA properties.
Purchase transaction is LBI for confidentiality.
MBI for availability and HBI for integrity.
Only password and credit, debit card information are HBI in confidentiality.
So data encryption control only need to be apply to this two
but not the other information assets.