>> The origins of risk management can trace back to gaming in ancient times, then the start
of the Modern Life Insurance Company in 1700's.
After World War II, there was a shift in risk management philosophy beyond to buy insurance.
The introduction of operations research and the management science with advancement
in probability theory and information theory.
And there is an emphasis on cost benefit analysis, expected value,
and the scientific approach to decision making under uncertainty.
And there is a shift from descriptive to normative decision theory.
Risk management, as a multidisciplinary subject, grew out of a merger of applications
in the military and aerospace programs, financial theory and insurance.
It requires a skilled individual that understands probabilities, statistics,
finance, and information technology.
As we briefly discussed at the last unit, risk is the existence of threats associated
with vulnerabilities that could cause harm to an asset.
Each risk statement must contain three primary elements, threat, vulnerability, and asset.
If any one of these elements are missing,
the risk statement is incomplete, or there's no risk.
A quote says,you will never own a perfectly secure system.
So risk is an inherent part of doing business.
Risk advice from uncertainty surrounding business or operational decisions and outcomes,
it refers to a problem or consequence that has not happened yet.
Within the context of IT operations, risk is the probability,
not the certainty of suffering a loss.
For instance, business disruptions, financial losses, loss of privacy, damage to reputation,
loss of confidence, legal penalties, impaired growth or loss of life,
etc. These probable consequences can be tracked to an undesirable outcome.
Conditions may involve threats, such as insider, like angry, dishonest employees, criminals,
hackers, nation state vulnerability, such as software bots, broken processes,
ineffective controls, and asset, like information or computing or fiscal entities.
Very often, risk is thought of in terms of malicious threat, bad things happening
to a business, but sometimes risk can have a positive side when that applies
to value creation and risk taking for rewards, such as introducing new products,
entering foreign markets, acquiring competitors, etc. All these are challenging endeavors
that may bring in positive outcome.
In order to elaborate the risk concept, I like to use the bald tire scenario from the book,
Measuring and Managing Information Risk, A Fair Approach, by Jack Freund and Jack Jones.
The references to this book and other related materials are in the resource section.
As we proceed through each of the steps within in the bald tire scenario here,
ask yourself how much risk is associated with what is being described.
Picture in your mind is a bald car tire.
Imagine that it is so bald you can hardly tell that it ever has tread.
How much risk is there?
Next, imagine that bald tire is tied to a rope hanging from a tree branch.
How much risk is there?
Next, imagine that the rope is frayed about halfway through just below
where it is tied to the tree branch.
How much risk is there?
Finally, imagine that the tire swing is suspended
over an 80-foot cliff with sharp rocks below it.
How much risk is there?
Now, identify the following components within this scenario.
What were the asset threats, vulnerabilities, and risks?
Most people believe the risk is high at the last stage of the bald tire scenario.
The answer, however, is that there's a very little probability
of significant loss given the scenario exactly as described.
Who cares if an empty old bald tire falls to the rocks below?
But what if someone climbs to the swing, some would say?
And the tire is supposed to be swung on, so of course we assume
that somebody would eventually climb on it.
The question or assumption is how likely that could happen and how much the loss would be.
The point is that it's very easy to make assumptions in risk assessment process.
In order to uncover and discuss these assumptions, we need common understandings
on these fundamental concepts about risk and what they mean in this context.
A third point is that you can have significant risk without potential for significant loss.
In other words, it doesn't matter how exposed to harm an asset is.
If the asset isn't worth much, the risk isn't high.
This is because risk always includes a value component that's the value of your asset.
If it didn't, betting a billion dollar would be equivalent to betting one dollar.
A final point here is that there is a tendency to equate vulnerability with risk.
We see a frayed rope or a server that isn't properly configured
and automatically conclude that the risk is high.
Is there a correlation between vulnerability and risk?
Yes. Is the correlation linear?
No. Because vulnerability is only one component of risk.
Threat [inaudible] frequency or likelihood
and the loss magnitude also are key parts of the risk equation.
So what are the assets [inaudible] vulnerability
and the risk components within this bald tire scenario?
Simply stated, the asset worth considering here is the bald tire.
The threat is the earth and the force of gravity that it applies to the tire and rope.
The potential vulnerability is the frayed rope, is regarding the potential
for rotten tree branch, etc. Some may ask were the cliff
or the sharp rocks a vulnerability or threat?
We think these are environmental variables that impact the likelihood
of a threat event and associate vulnerabilities.
Themselves are not threat or flaws in this context.
Then what about risk?
Which part of the scenario represents the risk?
Well the fact is that even a single component within the scenario that we can point to
and say here is the risk, risk is not a thing.
We can't see it, touch it, or measure it directly.
Similar to speed, which is derived from distance divided by time, risk is a derived value.
It is derived from the combination of the threat event in frequency, vulnerability,
and asset value and the liability characteristics.