Beyond domain of conventional scientific laboratory, hypothesis testing
and rigorous measurement underpin certain disciplines in the commercial world too.
Modern management consultant, for example, focuses on marshaling empirical evidence
to diagnose his organizational problems and to confirm hypothetical strategies
for fixing under-performing operations.
Here we'll briefly introduce a short and simple data gathering
and needs assessment exercise commonly used
in McKinsey's initial engagement process called McKinsey-style diagnostic.
Later in this unit, we will describe how to use empirical measures to diagnose these issues
within organization's security controls.
McKinsey-style diagnostic first states an overall hypothesis related
to the business problem at hand and then marshals evidence for metrics
that supports or undermines the theory.
The essence of this kind of diagnostic is quite simple.
First, the analyst team identifies an overall hypothesis to be supported.
For example, the firm is secure from wireless threats by outsiders.
The team then brainstorms additional sub-hypothesis that must hold
for the overall hypothesis to be true.
For example, to support the wireless hypothesis we just identified,
we might pose this sub-hypothesis such as open wireless access points are not accessible
from outside the building, and wireless access points
on the corporate LAN requires session encryption and the reliable user authentication.
Then the team examines each sub-hypothesis to determine if it can be supported
or disproved by measuring something.
If it cannot, the hypothesis is either discarded or decomposed into lower level hypothesis.
For each lowest level hypothesis, the team identifies specific diagnostic questions.
The answers to the questions provide evidence for or against the hypothesis.
Diagnostic questions generally take the form of the number of X is greater or less than Y
or the percentage of X is greater or less than Y. For example,
there are no open wireless access points that can be accessed from the building's parking lot
or surrounding areas, or 100% of wireless access points
on the corporate LAN requires 128-bit WAP security.
Hence, the diagnostic questions dictate our metrics.
The primary benefit of this diagnostic method is that hypotheses are proven or disproven based
on empirical evidence rather than intuition because each hypothesis supports the other.
So cumulative weight of hard effects builds a supporting case that cannot be disputed.
A secondary benefit of the diagnostic method is that it forces the analyst team to focus only
on measurements that directly support or disprove the overall hypothesis.
Any issues that cannot be measured will be automatically filter themselves out.
So far, the simple hypothesis and diagnostic questions given
in this exercise are rather simplistic.
Let's look at a real-world example given by the book Security Metrics Replace Fear,
Uncertainty, and Doubt by Andrew Jaquith.
A case study about using metrics to diagnose problems.
This is about a large well-known maker of high-end consumer electronics.
This company operates a large reasonably up-to-date network
and the full suite of Enterprise applications.
The CTO, Barry, a pseudonym here, an extremely smart man and fully conversant
in the prevailing technology trend, he has a fact-based decision-making style.
Barry's problem was simple.
His firm had historically been an engineering-driven company
with limited need for internet applications.
More recently, his senior management team had asked him to deploy a series
of transactional financial systems that would offer customers order management,
loan financing, and consumer support services.
This public facing systems in turn connected back
to several internal manufacturing applications as well
as to the Enterprise application such as SAP and Oracle systems.
Barry wanted to make sure his perimeter
and application defenses were sufficient before beginning significant deployments.
He wanted to know how difficult it might be for an outsider to penetrate his security perimeter
and access sensitive customer data, product development plan, or financial systems.
Barry's question was "is my company's customer data secure from outside attack?"
Barry wanted to find out how difficult it might be for an outsider
to penetrate his security perimeter and access sensitive customer data.
He wanted to find out how good his defense really were,
how well his company compared to other companies.
To answer Barry's question, our overall hypothesis held
that indeed the company was highly vulnerable to attacks from outsiders.
To show that this statement was true or not true, we constructed sub-hypothesis
that could be supported or disproven
by asking specific questions whose answers could be measured precisely and empirically.
Here is a subset of diagnostic can be employed to test the hypothesis.
The overall hypothesis can be decomposed into the following sub-hypothesis.
The network perimeter is porous, permitting easy access to any outsider.
An outsider can readily obtain access to internal systems
because password policies are weak.
Once on the network, attackers can easily obtain administrator's credentials.
An intruder finding a hole somewhere in the network could easily jump straight
to the core transactional systems.
Work stations are at risk for virus or worm attacks.
Viruses or worms can be spread to large number of computers quickly.
Application security is weak and relies too heavily on out of box defaults.
The firm's deployment of applications are much riskier than those made by leaders
in the field, for example, investment banking.
Note that this diagnostics do not exhaust the potential problem space.
Time and budget impose natural limits on the number and the kind
of diagnostics that can be deployed.
To simplify, we go through a small subset
of diagnostic questions for three sub-hypotheses here.
For the remaining diagnostics, please see the link in the resource section.
The three diagnostic questions for the sub-hypothesis:
"The network perimeter is porous, permitting easy access
to any outsiders" are how many sites are connected directly
to the core network without firewall?
How many of these sites have deployed unsecured wireless networks?
Starting with zero knowledge, how many minutes are required
to gain full access to network domain controllers?
The diagnostic question for sub-hypothesis "an outsider can readily obtain access
to internal system because password policies are weak" is the following.
What percentage of user accounts could be compromised in 15 minutes or less?
For sub-hypothesis "an intruder finding a hole somewhere
in the network could easily jump straight to the core transactional system,"
the diagnostic question is how many internal zones exist to compartmentalize users,
workgroup servers, transactional systems, partner systems, retail stores, and web servers.
To answer these diagnostic questions,
a four-month security risk assessment program was put in place for Barry's company.
The network perimeter defenses, internal networks,
top 10 most significant application systems, and the related infrastructures were assessed.
At the end of the four-month duration, a final presentation was made to Barry
and his team assessing the company's risk in protecting customer data.
The metrics that derive from diagnostics played a key role in proving the hypothesis.
The evidence was so compelling, in fact, that the initial risk assessment program was extended
into a much longer corrective program to strengthen company's overall security.