>> Information security risk management is about supporting decision making under uncertainty,
there are two approaches can be used to handle uncertainty.
One is modeling approach or called modelers approach.
Some well-formed modeling can help us figure out what good metrics ought to look like.
This is a top down approach that defines security metrics from the point view
of the modeling threats, risk and the loses.
And asking question like why things happen?
Using risk equation, loss expectancy,
linear algebra, economic incentives and so on.
It is similar to the mindset of scientific theorist that define the hypothesis
or the model first and then designed experiments and collect data to prove the hypothesis.
Another approach is data driven approach or called measurers approach.
It is a bottom up approach and is similar to the mindset of experimentalists.
And purely driven by observations and imperial data.
And then apply time serious analyses,
correlation analysis' for example to derived metrics.
What constitute the good metrics then?
Good metrics should be consistently measured without subjective criteria.
For example metrics versus ratings.
Ratings are subjective to human judgement, which often not repeatable, nor consistent.
Good metrics are cheap to gather in terms of time and the money.
Preferably in that automated way with a short sampling intervals.
The table here shows some examples security metrics can be used
for security management decisions in operations management, program planning,
strategic planning, crisis management based on the measurement frequency
and importance of the measurement.
For instance metrics with a high frequent measurements and the relative low importance
such as anti-malware data, network operations and traffics,
security operations, maintenance or housekeeping.
This metrics can be used for operations management decision making.
metrics with a frequency, high frequency measure and the relatively high important
such as the threat metrics in trucing detection.
This metrics can be used for crisis management decision making.
So please read examples listed under strategic planning and program planning offline.
Furthermore good metrics I express as a cardinal number of percentage.
Not with qualitative labels like high, medium or low.
They are expressed using at least one unit of measure such as a defects,
hours or dollars for benchmarking purpose.
Two units of measure are better.
For example number of application security defects per 1,000 lines of code.
metrics with a short sampling intervals help companies analyze their security effectiveness
on a day to day and week to week basis, rather than through a whole year review.
They are contextually specific.
Relevant enough to decision makers so that they can take actions.
For instance; scoping the average number of attacks down to business unit,
to make specific decisions about security provisioning and the staffing.
Rather than using the general average number of attack.
Good metric out to pass the smell tests.
So what are the bad metrics example?
Bad metrics are often vague and confusion.
They are inconsistently measured such as ratings oriented metrics.
They are very useful for taking organizations temperature, but they are not good metrics.
Bad metrics cannot be gathered cheaply.
We often call them expensive metrics.
For instance for metrics that are more operational or diagnostic in nature,
long sampling intervals when not cotted [assumed spelling].
That match do not express results with the cardinal number and the units of measures.
For instance subjective scores,
numerical equivalence are functionally equivalent to ratings.
So what are not metrics?
ISO 17799 defines a structure approach to framing
and addressing the problem space of information security.
It provides that an excellent lens for viewing the subject of information security.
It carves the security problem space into a taxonomy of ten subject domains ranging
from security policy to physical policy, access control and the system development.
The subject domains break down into about 150 control areas.
There are many so-called metrics project focused
on subjective assessments against an establish taxonomy.
Self-assessment tool designed to quantify risk based on the ISO sender and AOE method.
ISO 17799 is a well-structured security taxonomy and is often used
as the guidelines for assessing compliance with good industry practices,
but it is not a metrics framework.
Since its excessive focus on audit, such as security control requirements,
but no practical recommendations.
And it contains subjective success criteria.
Even though they are highly descriptive, but rarely prescriptive
and it pays insufficient attention to measurements.
AOE model, the impact, the security events have on asset.
The numbers using AOE are not metrics.