>> Drawings from examples in fields like manufacturing, logistics,
and management consultant, security metrics attempt to put numbers around activities
that safeguard information resources.
Unlike the qualitative risk assessment method such as the conventional risk metrics,
security metrics are not based on the subjective high, medium,
low scoring methods and oversimplified ALE equation.
Security metrics do not replace risk management but supplement it
with some objective measurements in all three phases, risk assessment, risk mitigation,
and risk evaluation, and help organizations to: Understand weakness or identify vulnerabilities
in their IT system and security infrastructure; understand and characterize the risk;
measure the performance of security controls including technical controls, process controls,
and compliance controls; determine the data points for collection and monitoring process.
There are three caveats.
Security metrics discussed in this course are not exhaustive,
many based on the security metrics book by Andrew Jaquith,
who also founded the security metrics that work.
This metrics are mostly observed rather than modeled.
There's no risk model that justify the selection of particular metrics.
Not all these metrics are appropriate for all organizations.
So the list we discussed here is not meant to be canonical.
When you select metrics for your own use, each must past the 'so what' test
to ensure the selected metrics can provide insights you don't already have
and help your organization to spend dollars more wisely and help you diagnose problems better.
Security analysts use metrics for many purposes, particularly for diagnosing problem
with the organization's security programs.
Diagnostic security metrics borrow
from management consultant techniques by asking two questions.
What hypothesis can be formed about efficiency or effectiveness of security controls?
What evidence can be marshaled to support or disprove that hypothesis?
Technical security activities provide a wide variety of metrics
that analysts can use as diagnostics.
Let's discuss the first type of security metrics.
Technical metrics include those that measure perimeter defense,
which is understand the security incidents coming from outside
and measure the effectiveness of antivirus/antispam systems, firewalls,
and intrusion prevention systems.
Control and coverage understand the extent and effectiveness of configuration, patching,
and the vulnerability management systems.
Availability and the reliability.
Metrics like mean time to recover, MTTR,
and uptime percentages show the dependencies between security and profits.
Application risk such as defect counts, cyclomatic complexity,
and application risk indices help quantify the risks inherent
to homegrown code and third party software.