>> Because of the history and the long tenure and corporate budgets, and the relative maturity
of the tool, for example, antivirus, anti-spyware, vulnerability scanning tools,
patch management software, matrix for parameter security are arguably the best understood
of all security measures.
This table shows a representative list of a parameter defense matrix.
Most of these matrix should be familiar to most security professionals.
It includes four subsections.
Emails, antivirus and anti-spyware, firewall and network parameter.
Attacks. Each row in the table represents a specific matrix which has three properties,
each per column from left to right.
Matrix and its unit of measure.
Purpose and sources is a representative list of the typical sources
that are systems originating the matrix.
Matrix may not always seem intuitively obvious but most
of the matrix should be fairly self-explanatory.
As you read through the email section of the table, you'll recognize some familiar matrix.
A classic set of spam and gateway antivirus matrix,
such as percentage of spam detected and filtered.
The number of viruses and spyware detected in email messages.
Research by the Robot Francis Group show that 77%
of organizations track the first matrix and that 92% track the second.
But it is dangerous to read too much into this.
For example, the percentage of emails that are spam is often paraded around as evidence
that the spam-controlled software is doing its job.
But that matrix really does not tell us much about the software's accuracy,
only about overall level of pollution in the email system.
In other words, it is an environmental indicator but not necessarily a measure of effectiveness.
A better measure of effectiveness is either the percentage of missed spam as reported
by the end-user, or the percentage of a false positive, that is the messages that were marked
as spam that were not actually spam.
A minority of companies watch this matrix; 39% and 31% respectively.
Both of these measures can be used other
and the two together comprise what is called the spam detection miss rate matrix.
Under the [inaudible] degree of antivirus and anti-spyware matrix are the usual fun facts.
The number of distinct pieces of malware detected by the antimalware software scans.
This data are usually gathered from desktop and server antimalware systems.
But with a little enrichment from manual data sources
and trouble ticketing system, we can add more context.
For example, the virus incidence requiring manual clean-up matrix tells us
which virus outbreaks were bad enough that automated quarantine
and removal process could not contain them.
Dividing the number of incidence that required human intervention into the total number
of incidence gives us a much more honest assessment
of the effectiveness of the antivirus system.
Labor costs associated with the manual clean-up efforts also can give an organization a sense
of where its [inaudible] and fixed dollars are going.
Another twist can be added to the traditional antivirus statistic is a simple matrix
documenting the number of outbound viruses or spyware samples caught
by the parameter [inaudible] gateways content, filtering software.
What it matters, it is simple.
It is an excellent indicator of how clean the internal network is.
Organizations that practice good hygiene don't infect their neighbors and business partners.
Here's a quote from the chief security officer, CSO, of a Wall Street investment bank.
"Last year we stopped 70,000 inbound viruses.
But I'm oh so prouder of having stopped 500 outbound."
In other words the bank's internal network is cleaner
than outside environment by a factor of 140 to 1.
Let's look at a firewall and network parameter matrix for a moment.
Recall that firewalls are rarely in and off themselves deterrent
to attacks at business [inaudible] layer.
That said, they do serve an essential function by keeping unwanted internet traffic away
from protected network assets such as application servers.
The converse is also true.
Firewalls also let traffic in.
In many corporations the firewall rules can be extremely complex,
as a result of a continuous organic growth in the number
of access requests from business units.
For example, one aerospace company has over 50,000 active firewall rules and a less
than clear understanding of exactly which business units all those rules are for.
Rhonda MacLean, CEO of MacLean Risk Partners and former CSO of Bank of America,
turned firewall rule management into a creative set of matrix, which have been captured here
in the table as firewall rule changes and firewall labor matrix.
Rhonda's team counted the number and cost of changes in absolute terms to provide a view
of the level of efforts required to respond to new business requirements.
They also broke down these numbers by business unit to encourage accountability
and to justify the charge back for services rendered.
In the firewall and network parameter section, you will know two other matrix.
The first one counts the number of open, wireless access points
when organizations remoter office.
By open we mean not requiring WEP, WPA or RADIUS password, and without restricting access
by means of such MAC address filtering.
This isn't necessarily the most critical matrix for every organization.
But it can represent a security risk for firms with many far-flung offices
in urban environments, especially when considered in combination with other matrix,
namely the number of remote offices connected directly to core transaction networks.
For example, one electronic manufacturer found multiple open wireless access points
in several overseas locations.
In several cases, these locations were in dense, urban neighborhoods.
Anybody with a laptop could obtain an IP address and sniff around internal network.
Even worse the company had no concept of network zoning.
It didn't place any firewalls between the remote locations
and its core enterprise resource planning, ERP, financial and customer relationship management,
CRM, and other management systems.
Quantifying security attacks is a difficult task, but it is getting easier due
to the improved accuracy of intrusion detection software.
Many security vendors and their SEIM software can identify attacks
by filtering security information into three levels of [inaudible].
The lowest level security events, feed into the SEIM from source system.
This event, a process, by SEIM and are not necessarily intended to be viewed by humans.
If certain types of events correlate strongly, the system generates an alert and forwards
to a security dashboard along with the supporting data.
If the incident response team feels
that alert represents an actual attack they can create an incident.
Naturally we can add and should count all these items.
About 85% organization count incidents.
Over half, 54%, also count successful attacks.
These statistics are also interesting in relation to each other.
When the [inaudible] of event and incident data can be scoped down to a well understood
and well defined group of assets, such as a public web service.
We can use these numbers to create a funnel that shows duration of internet web sessions
to suspected attackers and actual manually investigated attackers.
You will note that in attacks section, there's a common statistic
such as the most commonly attacked ports and the most dangerous external URLs.
These are omitted deliberately because they do not pass the, so what, test.
Since the typical top ten ports or top ten attacking IP address,
top ten URLs are really just watch lists, we don't consider them compelling matrix,
since it is more important to measure operational efficiency
and the effectiveness of their control environment.