>> You can only manage what you measure
and you can only measure what you define clearly and consistently.
Therefore to measure is to know.
Security is neither a protect nor tech knowledge,
but it is a means not end; and it is a process.
And we all know process is boring, is a routine and institutional.
In short, process is operational and process is measurable.
So then, how are the processes to be measured?
In mature process driven industries,
measurements such as the key performance indicators,
KPIs are very commonly used to drive business operations.
To illustrate how a relatively simple key indicator speaks volumes
about company operations here are some examples.
Cost per square, inventory returns, that is average number
of times the complete inventory rotates through the warehouse on a yearly basis.
These two matrix used in supply chain industry commonly.
Website conversion rate, that is the percentage of unique visitors
to the website who buy something at the end.
Subscription cost to acquire, that's the cost of all marketing subsidies and discounts divided
by the number of acquired customers.
These two matrix are for ecommerce operations.
There are some key characteristics emerging for these KPIs or matrix.
They incorporate measures of time or money they are all well understood across the company
and they are well understood across industries and are consistently measured.
They are calculated mechanically.
From this unit, we will study one quantitative method based on matrix
for security risk management called security matrix.
Information security is one of the few areas of management
that does not possess a well understood cannon of techniques for measurements.
Let's look at some parallel examples from multiple industries.
In finance, value and risk techniques calculate the amount of money a firm could lose
on a given day based on the historical price volatilities.
The core idea is that there is a target for risk and the matrix
that says how far off the target you are.
There's zero ambiguity about which of [inaudible] what risks.
In information security field, however, there's nothing but ambiguity about who owns what risk.
We also can leverage much more from the quality control literature
from past decades on measuring quality.
We can think or treat security flaw a special cases of quality flaws or defects,
assuming they are accidental and not the fruits of sabotage.
Developers should work on quality early in the development process
and quality security are not afterthoughts.
Public health tries to answer questions about disease incidence prevalence
and spread to get the big picture.
Being an electronic world standardization are overwhelming dominant vendors creates a near
monoculture of limited, if any [inaudible] immunity.
The creation of CDC Center for Disease Control for the internet with electronic analogs
to the CDC's epidemiology coverage, requires mandatory reporting
of all security incidents, attacks and vulnerabilities.
System administrators who plan workable models of diminished operation
for computer systems are doing precisely the same thing as portfolio managers
who hatch their investment positions.
The official measurement of Homeland Security risks move from yellow to orange.
So what does that mean?
What knobs would you adjust?
You need a better risk model, one hatched and calibrated enough
to respond to external risk indicators.
If you have not calibrated the model with measurements,
it is clear that you either overspent or underspent.
Similar to the accelerated failure testing in manufacturing industry,
we have website penetration tests in information security.
In insurance industry, when an underlying measurement entity is subject to change,
the best alternative is a moving window rather than a flawed data capture.
In today's e-business world, the technical flags of change is high.
So the information risk assurance generally protects
against named hazards rather than an umbrella.
How to define matrix?
A matrix is a consistent system or standard of measurement.
IT matrix are measurements for value delivery, doing the right thing;
process improvement, doing things right.
The primary goal of a matrix is to quantify data to facilitate insights.
Helping diagnose a particular subject area or understand its performance.
Quantifying particular characteristic
of the chosen subject area; facilitating before and after.
What if, why or why not inquiry.
Focusing discussions about the matrix themselves on costs, means and outcomes rather
than on methodologies used to derive them.
Numbers are the language of business.
Security matrix are growing ever more sophisticated knowing what to measure,
how to measure it and how to communicate them can help improve security's efficiency,
effectiveness, understanding in the business world.
Security leaders generate data every day.
Knowing what to look for and how to analyze it can spell success
for security operation and organization it serves.
Yes. Got the first one done.