>> What's wrong with this formula that we discuss
in cost-benefit analyst section of risk mitigation phase?
As we know that annual loss expectancy, ALE, is a popular paradigm
in information security assessment field.
It models the impact that security events have on assets.
Also, ALE is a relatively easy and simple algebra formula that multiplies the value
over discrete loss event, SLE, by its expected annual occurrence.
The problem with ALE, as people simply put, there are lots of guesswork.
All the numbers are poorly understood.
Have the following aspects.
Firstly, ALE has the inherent difficulty in modeling outliers.
Security events are low-frequency and high severity.
Outliers dominate loss events.
Hard to characterize a typical loss event.
ALE model encourages practitioners to think about dollar impact on an aggregate,
average basis, in spite of the fact that the losses do not navigate to the middle.
They cluster on the far edges.
Secondly, the lack of data for estimating probability or likelihood
of occurrence or loss expectancies.
Thirdly, sensitivity of the ALE model to small changes in assumptions
because ALE model contains only a few variables.
So why security metrics then?
Security is not a product.
It is a process like we said.
We often need to answer the question like the following: is my security better this year?
What am I getting for my security dollars?
How do I compare with my peers?
Security risk management is about decision-making.
And it requires the balancing the cost of countermeasures against the cost of risk.
Like any other business decision-making, it is precisely the point of any measurement exercise.
ISO 17799 acknowledges a comprehensive and balanced system of measurement,
which is used to evaluate performance in information security management,
is a critical success factor for information security
but challenges in measuring security at large.
It include unwillingness to share security information.
Lack of common definitions for terms and metrics.
Fundamental concepts in the words such as incident, attack, threat,
risk and vulnerability mean different things to different people.
Basic metrics for counting events are difficult
to collect because the terms are unclear.
Legal concerns and incentive failures are also roadblocks to data sharing.
The lack of consensus on security metrics is in part due to the fact
that the culture surrounding the security is largely one of shame.
Firms that get hacked tend not to talk about security incidents in public.
Likewise, firms that are doing the right things tend not to talk about it either.
When they do talk, it is typically under the nondisclosure agreement
or at small gatherings of like-minded people.
More regulations versus more measurements.
Some would argue that regulations not measurement is what is needed.
Some would say that answers to somehow force more investment
in security that if this is an arms race.
That the good guy can win because at the end of the day they can out-spend opposition.
That may be true in a physical world, but it is a dangerous delusion
to think it could work in a digital world.
In a digital world, the defenders work factor is proportional to the sum
of all the methods the attackers possess,
multiplies the complexity of that which is to be defended.
The attackers work factor is the cause of creating new methods as fast
as old ones must be retired where complexity insures that the supply
of new methods can neither be exhausted.
This asymmetry does not allow an outspending them strategy work.
Therefore, knowing what to measure, how to measure it,
and how to communicate those metrics can help improve security's efficiency, effectiveness,
and the standing in the business world.
The purpose and the benefit of security metrics.
Getting the right measurements depends on knowing the right questions.
So the key security questions for business leaders including this.
How effective are my security processes?
Am I better off than I was this time last year?
How do I compare with my peers?
Am I spending the right amount of money?
What are my risk transfer options?
The benefits of security metrics include understand security risks,
spot emerging problem, understand weaknesses in their security infrastructure,
and measure performance of countermeasure process,
recommend technology and process improvement.
Security metrics are the measurements to support decision regard to security risk management.
They measure the probability and the potential consequences of an identified risk.
They also measure how effective the security operations are like the adequacy
of security control and where to focus our limited resources.
They also measure to understand the risk environment.
Security metrics must be about ROSI, return on security investment.
There are three types of security metrics.
First is technical security metrics used to diagnose problems
and measure technical security activities.
Second type, security program metrics used to measure overall program effectiveness
such as risk management, policy's compliance, employee training, identity management.
Third is a security scorecard.
It's using above two sets of metrics to build a balance security scorecard.
A comprehensive and balanced system of measurement,
which is used to evaluate performance in information security management,
is a critical success factor for information security.