>> Step three in risk assessment, likelihood determination.
Determining likelihood is fairly straightforward.
It is the probably that the threat caused by a threat source will occur
against a vulnerability with existing controls in place.
In order to ensure that risk assessments are consistent, it is an excellent idea
to utilize a standard definition of likelihood on all risk assessments.
Here is the sample likelihood definitions.
High likelihood.
The threat source is highly motivated and is sufficiently capable,
and controls to prevent the vulnerability from being exercised are ineffective.
Likely, like 76 to 100% chance of successful exercise of threat within one year.
Medium likelihood.
The threat source is motivated and capable, and controls are in place
that may impede successful exercise of the vulnerability.
Probable, 26 to 75% of chance of successful exercise of a threat within one year.
Low likelihood.
The threat source lacks motivation or capable, or controls are in place to prevent
or at least significantly impede the vulnerability from being exercised.
Not probable, zero to 25% chance of successful exercise of threat within one year.
Be very careful in setting up the likelihood definitions.
The sample likelihood definitions above show a bell curve
with a medium likelihood being twice as significant as a low or high.
This may be an unfair characterization for particular organization that prefers
to use a straight curve, such as low means zero to 20, 33%,
medium from 34 to 66%, high is from 67 to 100%.
Or perhaps five levels likelihood, such as very low, low, medium, high, and very high.
The most important thing is to make sure that the definitions are consistently used,
clearly communicated, agreed upon, and understood by the team performing the assessment
and by the organization management.
Please take note that in the simple likelihood definitions, the existing controls,
whether they may prevent or impede the threats, are being taken into account.
Usually, you can identify the existing controls from security requirement checklists
or previous risk assessment activities.
We'll discuss the general control framework at risk mitigation section.
Step four in risk assessment, impact analysis.
To determine the adverse impact resulting from a successful threat exercise
of a vulnerability, here is the formula.
Magnitude of impact equal likelihood times value.
The measurement of magnitude of impact, which can be used in the cost-benefit analysis
of recommended control for risk mitigation decision.
Some tangible impact can be measured quantitatively in lost revenue,
the cost of repairing the system, or the level of effort required
to correct problems caused by successful threat action.
Other impact, such as loss of a public confidence, loss of credibility,
damage to an organization's interest or reputation, cannot be measured in specific units
but can be qualified or described in terms of qualitative categories,
such as a high, medium, and low impact.
Impact can be described in terms of loss or degradation of any or combination of any
of the following security goals -- confidentiality, integrity, availability.
We'll use CIA for short.
To illustrate a workable approach, we evaluate impact by focusing attention
on these three aspect of information security, CIA.
Here is a simple set of definitions.
High impact for CIA defined as the loss of CIA leads
to a severe effect on organization, respectively.
Medium impact for CIA is defined as a loss of CIA leads
to a serious effect on the organization.
Low impact for CIA is defined as a loss of CIA leads to a limited impact on organization.
However, in order to be meaningful, reusable, and easily communicated,
specific rating should be produced for the entire organization.
Here are example of organizational effect shows the specific values for high effect
for mission capability is defined as long-term loss of one
or more primary mission capabilities.
Medium effect for mission capability is defined as a long-term loss of one or more,
minor or temporary loss of one or more primary mission capabilities.
Low effect for mission capability is defined as temporary loss of one
or more minor mission capabilities.
So this high, medium, low effect on financial loss or damages
to organization asset are quite straightforward.
So are the effect on human life.
So we won't repeat these definitions here.
You can take a look at the slides for details later.
Finally, the output of this step is impact statement,
either in word sentences or summary table.
