>> If your risk assessment shows that you have unacceptable high levels of risk
to your business, then you need to take some action to counter them.
Risk mitigation is a systematic methodology used by senior management and asset owners
to reduce the risk through -- first, reduce the probability or likelihood
of the risk that affecting your business.
Second, limit the impact of the risk if it does occur.
There is three main steps in risk mitigation.
Recommend controls to reduce the likelihood component
and impact magnitude component in risk equation.
Cost benefit analysis for each recommended control.
Prioritize the controls and design an implementation plan including cost and timeline.
Mitigation process will evaluate, prioritize, and implement the recommended policy, procedure,
and the technical security solutions.
There are many types of security controls that can be implemented to protect company assets.
Each control is one or more of the following category types.
Compensating controls provides an alternative measure of control that is deemed too difficult
or impractical to implement at the present time.
For instance, data encryption can be difficult and expensive to implement.
As frequently the case, multiple compensating controls may be required to provide security
that is equivalent to the control being replaced.
Compensating controls in lieu of comprehensive data encryption might include the use
of a database applications and the services, network access control,
data leak prevention strategies, and email encryption.
Detective controls.
It helps identify an attacker's activities and potentially an intruder
such as intrusion detection system, IDS, security information and event management, SIEM,
thread intelligence based on big data analytics for security.
Recovery controls.
Intended to bring environment back to regular operations such as system backup policy,
disaster recovery, incident response process.
Corrective controls.
Fixes components or systems after an incident has occurred.
For instance, complete changes to IT access list if individual's role change.
Preventive controls.
Intended to avoid an incident from occurring such as the firewalls, defense, in-depth,
access control, code reviews, unit testing, principle of list privilege,
secure coding principles to avoid [inaudible] overflows,
format [inaudible] vulnerabilities, and a code or command injection.
Deterrent controls intended to discourage a potential attacker.
This could be a posted warning notice to would be attacker that they will be prosecuted
to the fullness extent of the law.
One other valuable distinction to be made
with controls is whether they are manual or automated.
A business can implement the manual controls to minimize the chances of fraudulent payments
such as requiring an administrator and a manager to manually signed applicable paperwork
to indicate that the transaction was authorized and approved.
As an alternative, the business could automate this controls by introducing a computer program
with a logical [inaudible], segregation of duties, and the maker [inaudible] controls.
The following represent a simple list of the primary controls
for the land host compromise from ABC Bank example exercise.
Financial advisor can only access accounts they own thus exposure is less than 100%.
This is preventive control.
Email notice to patch or update host proactively sent to all users.
Preventive control.
The status of antivirus and security updates are measured on the land every few hours.
This control reduce the time window when land host are vulnerable to attacks.
So this is detective and corrective controls.
Look at technical and process controls surrounding an asset
and consider the effectiveness in defending
against the threat's vulnerability pair defined earlier.
Technical controls like authentication, authorization, intrusion detection,
network filtering, and routing, and encryption are considered in this space of the assessment.
It's important, however, not to stop there.
Business control like [inaudible] of multiple path of transactions, manual review,
and approval of activities, and audits can often be more effective in preventing
or detecting attacks or errors than technical controls.
The multidisciplinary risk assessment team is designed to bring both types of controls
into consideration when determining the effectiveness of controls.
At the conclusion of this step, the assessment team documents the controls associated
with the asset and the effectiveness in defending against the particular threats.
There are many ways to measure the effectiveness control.
One common way is to design a set of questions.
Each of which characterize common control categories and properties.
For instance, accountabilities, awareness, communication,
compliance process, audit practice.
The description field for each question can be customized [inaudible] your identified risk.
For instance, the land host compromise risk in ABC Bank example,
the first question can be is accountability defined and enforced effectively?
You can tailor the description to policy creation
and host compliance accountability are well defined as a desired and effective control.
If answer is yes according to this description, that means the effective control is in place.
So assigned value 0 since the lower value number means control is more effective.
And may reduce the likelihood of an exploit occurring.
If answer is no, then assign 1 value.
Each question has different value assignment depending on the question and the description.
Please know that this value is subjective in nature and depending on the experience
of security risk management team to understand its controlled environment.
A plan of action at a milestone, POAM, poam,
should be part of the risk mitigation report presented to management team.
The POAM is a tool to communicate to management on the proposed and actual completion
of the implementation of the risk management strategies such as recommended policy,
procedures, and technical controls from earlier steps.
For instance, in ABC Bank example, the recommended control
for remote compromise [inaudible] are two fact authentication.
A POAM needs to put together to implement two fact authentication.
It should contain the risk it tries to mitigate.
The point of the contact responsible for implementing the strategy,
the resources required, and the various milestone that compromised the implementation.
For each milestone, a target completion date and actual completion date is listed.
Note that the POAM is a tool to communicate
to management rather than a project management plan.
The first step in implementing risk management strategies is
to get management team to approve the POAM.
Afterwards, the various individuals and teams report upon their progress.
This, in turn, is reported to management and tracked as a part
of the ongoing process of risk management.