>> The cost benefit analysis provides a consistent, comprehensive structure
for identifying, scoping, and selecting the most effective and cost efficient mitigation solution
to reduce risk to an acceptable level.
Asset owner owns the cost benefit analysis for the assets.
Security professional is to recommend and evaluate control solutions
and define the functional requirements for the controls for each risk.
And using a quantitative approach
since qualitative approach doesn't assign hard financial value to assets,
expected losses, and cost of controls.
Instead you just calculate a relative value because there's no basis
for cost benefit analysis for qualitative approach, it is very difficult
to justify investing in control implementation.
So here we'll use an ALE, annual loss exposure, based quantitative approach.
Risk level before control.
Risk level after control.
And the cost of control.
Quantitative asset valuation.
First how to determine the overall value in direct financial terms?
For example, an e-commerce website 7/24 generating an average
of $2,000 per hour in revenue.
Simply assume the website generates a constant rate per hour.
Then the annual value of a website in terms
of sales revenue equal 2,000 time 24 times 365 which is about 17 million.
Compute the immediate financial impact of losing the asset.
For example, if the website becomes unavailable for six hours,
the calculated exposure equals 6 divided by 24 times 365.
So it's about 0.7%.
Direct revenue can be computed accordingly.
The website may have some permanent loss of users.
Calculating the revenue loss is actually quite complex is you want to be precise
and consider all potential types of loss.
Determine the indirect business impact of losing the asset.
The company estimates that it would spend $10,000 on advertising
to counteract the negative publicities from such an incident.
Additionally, the company also estimates a loss of 1% of annual sales or about $175,000.
So the total indirect loss can be the sum of both components.
Determine the single loss expectancy, SLE.
SLE is the total amount of revenue that is lost from a single occurrence of the risk.
SLE is similar to the impact of a qualitative risk analysis.
SLE equal asset value timed exposure factor, EF, where EF represent the percentage of loss
that this realized threat could have on a certain asset.
For example, if a company has an asset value of $150,000 and a fire result
in damages worth an estimate 25% of its value, SLE equal 115 --
150,000 times 25% which is about $37,500.
Determine the annual rate of occurrence, ARO.
ARO is the number of times that you reasonably expect the risk to occur during one year.
Making this estimate is very difficult because there's a very little actual data available.
To estimate the ARO, draw on your past experience
and consult security risk management experts and consultants.
ARO is similar to the probability or likelihood
of a qualitative risk analysis ranging from 1 to 100%.
Determine the annual loss expectancy, ALE.
ALE is a total amount of money that your organization will lose in one year
if nothing is done to mitigate the risk.
ALE equal SLE times ARO.
ALE provides a value that your organization can work with to budget what it will cost
to establish controls or safeguards to prevent this type of damage.
For example, if a fire at the same company results in $37,500 in damages and the likelihood
of ARO value is over 1.1, 0.1 indicating once in 10 years.
Then the ALE value is about $3,750.
Determining cost of controls.
It requires accurate estimates of how much acquiring, testing, deploying, operating,
and maintaining each control would cost such as buying or developing the control solution,
deploying and configuring the control solution, maintaining the control solution,
communicating new policies or procedures related to the new controls to users.
And training users and IT staff on how to use and support these new controls.
Monitoring controls.
Contending with the loss of convenience or productivity that the control might impose.
Return on security investment, ROSI.
ROSI equal ALE before control minus ALE after control minus annual cost of the control.
ROSI is cost benefit analysis to demonstrate the cost of implementing the controls
that can be justified by the reduction in the level of the risk.
For example, the ALE of the threat of an attacker bringing down a web server is
about $12,000 and after the suggested safeguard or control is implemented,
the ALE is value at $30,000 and the annual cost of maintenance
and operating of the safeguard is about $650.
So the ROSI will be around $8,350.
Now based on the ROSI analysis, how to define an acceptable level of risk.
It is management's responsibility to set their company's level of risk to ensure
that the company meets this business objectives and goals.
As a security professional it is your responsibility to work with management team
and help them understand what it means to define an acceptable level of risk
and how underlying security threats can negatively affect business objectives.
Each company has its own acceptable risk level which is derived
from its legal regulatory compliance responsibilities.
Its threat profile and its business drivers and impacts.
It is important to understand the symbiotic relationship between the business drivers
and the security issues that can affect them.
A company is not in business to be secure.
It is in business to be profitable.
A security professional may be an expert in [inaudible] vulnerability management
and ideas technologist but if this knowledge is applied in a vacuum devoid of business goals,
a company will end up wasting money and time in its security efforts.