>> Depending on the needs, people sometimes conduct risk assessment
at the summary level first.
To produce a list of prioritized risk very quickly.
This is analogous to the triage procedures that hospital emergency room to ensure
that they can help patients in greatest need first.
It allows team to quickly triage risks in order to identify the high and moderate risks
which enables the team to focus its efforts not only the risks deemed most important.
However, the drawback is that it yields a list of the containing only high level comparisons
between risks and lacks sufficient guidance for risk mitigation decisions.
The detailed risk level view enables stack ranking of risks
and also includes a more detailed view of that potential financial impact from the risk.
So this quantitative element facilitates cost
of control decisions in the decision support process.
On an active site, it is very time consuming.
Some organizations may choose not to produce a summary level risk list at all.
Without consideration, it may seem
that the strategy would save time upfront but this is not the case.
Minimizing the number of risks in the detail level risk ultimately makes the risk management
process more efficient.
A primary goal of risk management process is to simplify the risk assessment process
by striking a balance between added granularity for risk analysis and amount
of effort require to calculate risk.
Simultaneously it endeavors to promote and preserve clarity regarding the logic involved.
So the stakeholders possess a clear understanding of risk to the organizations.
Detail level assessment can be triggered after review the summary results with stakeholders.
The primary goal is to enable the organization
to understand the rationale behind the most important risk to the company.
It leverage many of the inputs using the summary level list.
However, the detail review requires to be more specific
in its impact and the likelihood descriptions.
And it also requires for six statements on the effectiveness of the current control.
And it delivers an estimate of each risk in quantifiable monetary terms.
There are some criteria for selecting risk from summary level.
For example, high level risk means every risk rated
as high must be included on the detail list.
Borderline risk, in some organization, even more --
or moderated risk may be included in the detail list.
Controversial risks.
If a risk is new, not well understand, or viewed differently by different stakeholders,
this all can be selected for detail risk review.
As a best practice, become familiar
with the detail risk assessment before the data gathering process.
This helps the security risk management team ask specific questions during the initial data
gathering discussions with stakeholders.
And minimizes the need for follow up meetings.
If a major security group owns the prior authorization process
and should tailor the prior authorization attributes as needed.
For example, you could modify the figures to focus on applications specific vulnerabilities
versus enterprise infrastructure vulnerabilities
if the assessment scope focus on application development.
The goal is to have a consistent collection of a criteria
for evaluating risk in your environment.
In the ABC Bank example, let's take a detail level view on two high risks identified earlier,
remote host compromise, land host compromise.
We need to get into deeper on how to determine the likelihood from two perspectives.
First, the likelihood of vulnerability based on its attribute
and the possible exploits such as attack of population.
The likelihood of exploit increases as attacker population increases
in size and technical skill level.
Remote versus local access.
The likelihood of a normally increase if a vulnerability can be exploited remotely.
Visibility of exploit.
The likelihood normally increases if the exploit is well known and topically available.
Automation of exploit.
The likelihood increases if an exploit can be programmed to automatically seek
out vulnerabilities across large environments.
Second, the likelihood of vulnerability based on effectiveness of current controls.
A set of questions can be designed to evaluate the effectiveness of existing controls.
We'll discuss this in risk mitigation section.
In addition to likelihood details, we can also determine the impact
through a quantitative scheme.
Conduct exposure ratings for loss of integrity, confidentiality, and availability separately.
Exposure factor which measures the extent of damage to the asset, 100% to 20%.
You adjust accordingly to your organization.
Quantify impact class value for asset class.
Use the formula impact equal impact class value times exposure factor to quantify the impact.