>> Now, we're introducing a hypothetical example to demonstrate a concrete use case
of the risk assessment process using a qualitative method that is based
on the three-level -- high, medium, low -- risk matrix.
ABC Bank is a trusted institution.
It has many high-value assets, ranging from interest calculation systems, customer PII --
personally identifiable information -- to consumer financial data and reputation.
This example focuses only on one of these asset, consumer financial data, such as account number,
account balance, and transaction history.
The risk assessment process is triggered by compliance checkpoint requirements and sponsored
by CFO, chief financial officer, of ABC Bank.
At the kickoff meeting, a risk management team is formed, consists the CFO is the sponsor,
who is the decision maker on resource prioritization and allocation.
VP of consumer service is the asset owner, who owns the consumer financial data
and provides the asset classification and value estimation.
Assume we take the information security professional role, who is responsible
for identifying threat and estimating the likelihood and the magnitude of impact.
IT engineering team manager is also part of the assessment team, who is responsible
for providing information regards vulnerability, and existing controls,
and evaluation of the effectiveness.
Later, he's also responsible for cost-benefit analysis at a risk mitigation phase.
So the risk management team met with the CFO and confirmed with the scope
of the risk assessment is solely on one asset, consumer financial data,
that is stored in the internal database server within ABC Bank firewall.
The data in transit is not in scope for this exercise.
Later, the team also confirmed with VP of consumer services, the asset owner,
that consumer financial data is a high-business impact, HBI,
asset class across all CIA properties.
Hence, we're only using one class, HBI, to represent of all asset class.
To identify threat, use common terminology to facilitate discussions surrounding threats.
For example, what do stakeholders want to avoid happening to various asset?
Focus discussions on what may happen versus how it may happen.
Phrase questions in terms of the confidentiality,
integrity, availability of the asset.
This example here focuses only on the threat of a loss of integrity to consumer financial data.
Unauthorized access to consumer data through theft of financial advisor credentials.
Additional threat may also exist surrounding the availability
and confidentiality of consumer data.
However, they are out of scope for this basic example in order to save time.
For the vulnerability identification, we focus on how the threat could occur.
There's three vulnerabilities considering the above threat.
First is the theft of the financial advisor credentials
by trusted employee abuse nontechnical attacks, such as social engineering or eavesdropping.
Second vulnerability is the theft of the financial advisor credentials off LAN hosts
through the use of outdated security configurations of antivirus signatures,
host configurations, or outdated security patches.
Third is the theft of financial advisor's credential off remote or mobile hosts
as a result of outdated security configurations.
There may be many more vulnerabilities in this scenario.
The goal is to demonstrate how vulnerabilities are assigned to specific threats.
Let's look at how to determine the likelihood of each threat-vulnerability pair
when existing controls are in place.
So this table shows four TV pair based on the basic ABC Bank example we just mentioned.
The risk management team work together through a combination of a questionnaire
and brainstorming workshops and meetings.
Collectively, they identify the exposure level for each given TV pair,
assuming this level definitions are given.
This exposure levels provide the extent of asset damage
if being successfully attacked without any control in place.
The likelihood in the rightmost column is different from exposure level
since it represent the likelihood of each TV pair successfully exercised on the asset
when existing controls are in place, assuming the definitions for HML likelihood are given,
as in previous sample table provided in step three of risk assessment phase.
This likelihood will be later used in the impact analysis.
In this example, the unauthorized exercise access to consumer financial data through theft
of financial advisor credentials through remote compromise with existing controls
on remote host configurations and the likelihood of it successfully exercised is high.
Well, the theft through LAN-managed devices has high exposure rating.
But with existing controls in LAN network,
the likelihood of it successfully exercised is medium.
For impact analysis, assuming based on the sample definitions on impact high, medium,
low levels and the specific effect for ABC Bank based on asset consumer financial data,
each TV pair identified in assessment table, the impact effect can be estimated based
on the likelihood and asset value and then captured
in the rightmost column by the risk management team.
The impact from the unauthorized access to consumer financial data through the theft
of the financial advisor credentials through both remote compromise
and the LAN-managed devices are high, according to the impact rating definitions,
while the impact from employee abuse
and man-in-middle attack are medium and low, respectively.
For risk determination, we use the qualitative risk matrix introduced earlier.
It is quite straightforward to determine the risk level -- high, medium, low --
based on the likelihood column and impact rating column
through a lookup on the given risk matrix.
Now, this table contains all necessary components for the well-formed risk statements,
such as asset name, classification, threat, vulnerability, existing controls,
and the derived likelihood on the impact rating.
Then, finally, the risk level is determined and documented.
The risk ranking is the most important result from the risk assessment phase.
In this basic example, two high risks have been identified.
They are the unauthorized access to consumer data through the theft
of the financial advisor credentials due to remote compromise and the LAN compromise.
This risk due to the password theft through employee is medium.
The risk due to the man in the middle is low.
The final risk assessment report will consist of the well-formed risk statement in table
or paragraphs reading; consistent definitions on exposure level, likelihood level, impact level
or effects; risk matrix used to determine the risk level from impact and the likelihood.