>> Determining risk is the final step in risk assessments phase.
It is a process of determining the likelihood of the threat being exercised
against the vulnerability and the resulting impact from a successful compromise.
When assessing likelihood and impact,
take the current threat environment and controls into consideration.
Likelihood and impact are assessed on the system as it is operating at the time of assessment.
But remember, do not take any planned controls into consideration.
Here's a sample risk determination matrix that can be used to evaluate risk
when using a three-level rating system, such as a high, medium, low,
for likelihood, impact, and derived risk.
This is a general scheme of qualitative risk assessment.
From this matrix, high risk is the high likelihood of a successful exercised threat
that could result in high or medium impact or medium likelihood
of successfully exercised threat that could result in high impact.
Likewise, medium risk is the high likelihood low impact,
or medium likelihood medium impact, or low likelihood high impact.
So on, so forth for low risk.
In a qualitative risk assessment, it is best not to use numbers when assessing risk,
even though sometimes a scale of one to five could be used.
Managers, especially the senior managements that make decisions concerning resource allocation,
often assume more accuracy than is actually conveyed
when reviewing a risk assessment report containing numerical values.
Recall that in qualitative risk assessment, the likelihood and the impact value are based
on the best available information, which is not typically well grounded
in documented past occurrence.
The concept of not providing any more granularity in risk assessment reports
than was available during the assessment process is roughly analogous to the use
of significant digits in physics and chemistry.
Roughly speaking, significant digits are the digits in the measurement that are reliable.
Therefore, it is impossible to get any more accuracy from the result
than was available from the source data.
So following this logic, if likelihood and impact will evaluate on the low, medium,
high basis, risk would also be low, medium, high.
If the risk assessment report does not clearly communicate the proper level of granularity,
the number of impact and the likelihood rating levels should be increased.
Some organization prefer to use four- or even five-level rating for impact and likelihood.
However, understand that individual impact
and likelihood levels must still be concisely defined.
Risk must also be communicated.
Once risk is understood, risks and the risk management strategies must be clearly
communicated to organizational management team in terms of easily understandable
to organizational management team.
Managers are used to managing risk.
They do it every day.
So presenting risk in a way that they will understand is key.
Ensure you do not try to using fear, uncertainty, and doubt.
Instead, present risk in terms of likelihood and impact, and the more concrete the terms are,
the more likely organizational management team will understand
and accept the findings and the recommendations.
Regardless of qualitative or quantitative schemes,
the well-formed risk statement should contain the estimated of magnitude of impact
and likelihood of the successfully exercised threats, and their corresponding definitions
or formulas based on identified threat, vulnerability, existing controls, and asset.
The well-formed risk statements at output of risk assessment phase,
upon which the following risk mitigation phase will be based.
By now, we have gone through the entire risk assessment phase.
Let's have a recap.
There are following steps in the risk assessment phase.
Risk assessment is triggered with a defined scope, asset, and team formation.
To identify risk, we need to conduct threat and vulnerability identification.
To characterize risk, we need to determine the likelihood of successfully exercised threat
and estimate the impact's magnitude.
Finally, determine risk and put together well-formed risk statements to communicate risk
to the business stakeholders and sponsors.
The well-formed risk statements generated
from risk assessment phase provide a base for risk mitigation phase.