>> In the rapidly changing technology industry,
the meanings of technical terms evolve over time.
Also, there isn't necessarily a clear consensus on their definitions and the degree
to why they overlap or are interchangeable.
In this unit, we'll begin with a set of cybersecurity-related terminologies
and their definitions that will be used throughout the course.
This includes computer security, information security, cybersecurity, and IT security.
These terms are closely linked that they are often used interchangeably.
But there are some important distinctions among them.
How similar and different are these terminologies?
What about privacy?
How does it relate with security?
To ascertain the similarities and differences among these terms is
by asking the following questions: What asset in what context is being secured
or protected and what purpose it serves?
First, let's start out with the computer security.
Computer security is a process and the collection of measures and controls
that ensures the confidentiality, integrity, and availability, CIA,
of the assets in computer systems.
Here, C stands for confidentiality -- ensures authorized access and disclosure.
I, integrity, ensures proper modification or destruction.
A stands for availability, ensures timely and reliable access and use.
The assets to be secured include three major types.
First, computing hardware devices, such as servers, PC, laptop, tablet, mobile phones.
Second, network devices, such as router and switches.
Third include embedded software, firmware, and operating systems.
Now, next, let's look at information security.
Information is a significant asset that can be stored in different ways,
such as stored digitally, or printed, or written on paper, or in human memory.
Also, it can be communicated through different channels, such as spoken language, gestures,
or digital channels, such as the internet, email, short messaging, videos, and so on.
Information security, or InfoSec in short, is another way of saying data security.
Most modern business data resides electronically on servers, desktops,
laptops, or somewhere on internet.
But a decade ago, before all confidential information migrated online,
it was sitting in a file cabinet.
Today, some confidential information still is.
InfoSec is concerned with making sure data in any form is kept secure in terms
of preserving its confidentiality, integrity, and availability.
As defined by the International Standards Organization, ISO, in 2014,
additional properties, such as authenticity, that ensures the source of information is
from the source it claims to be; accountability; non-repudiation, which is the ability to ensure
that one cannot deny the authenticity of their signature on the document or on the message;
and reliability can also be involved.
InfoSec is fairly broad and encompasses classification of information,
information security policies and procedures, physical security aspects,
and legal protections, and retention of information, regardless what format it is in.