>> The contours of a cyber threat landscape will continue to expand like never before.
With global internet traffic is said to be tripled by 2020,
cyber criminals have more opportunities to exploit it --
everything from endpoint devices in IoT to the cloud platforms.
Moving ahead, there are both external
and internal challenges toward cybersecurity functions.
The increased external threats are manifesting through three aspects:
the multiplying cyber threats, the disappearing perimeters as the proliferations
of endpoint devices in IoT and increasingly wide adoption of public and private cloud platforms,
growing attacking power of cyber criminals with more advanced and easy-to-use tools,
and attackers are rapidly adapting new techniques and strategies
to circumvent new security measures.
Internally, cybersecurity functions are facing following challenges: lack of agility due
to the predominant compliance-driven mind-set in security functions, lack of budget due
to many competing needs, and the cybersecurity skill gap will be ever-greater challenge
as more companies compete for talent in the limited marketplace.
Companies may be forced to rethink strategies and look for automated solutions
that are more proactive and preventive to enable them
to make the best use of available resources.
Traditional IT professionals need to be retrained because the top priority
of today's IT job is cybersecurity.
Last but not least, human beings are still the weakest links.
So cybersecurity is not just a pure technical problem.
As we're moving into the third decade of internet age,
one of the top cyber threats is the rise of cyber attacks that cause the irreversible harms.
Examples include the Sony hack in December 2014 that disclosed private and sensitive information
that cannot be pulled back -- confidentiality under attack.
Ransomware, like the WannaCry in May 2017 that encrypted health care data
and paralyzed operations -- availability under attack.
Ransomware is the new buzzword in 2017, and it is a type of malicious software that breaks
into the computers, locks down the data,
and encrypts them to block access until ransom is paid.
Ransomware attack is different from traditional data breach
in which hackers steal the data and sell them for profit.
By encrypting and blocking access to patient electronic records, for instance,
the routine hospital operations could be disrupted
and held hostage until ransom been paid.
Health care systems have been the sector mostly hit by ransomware recently due to the needs
for hospital to pay the ransom is greater in order to treat critical patients timely.
We'll decipher the most recent ransomware incidence, WannaCry, later in this course.
Going further, ransomware will further diversify as attackers move beyond the desktop.
It is expected to see ransomware going after high-value enterprise targets,
such as health care records, backup systems, connected and self-driving vehicles.
We may also see IoT devices being used to disrupt and ransom businesses.
If an attacker can take control of your lights, heating, or access controls,
then they could easily hold you to ransom for this.
Social engineering will become more prominent.
In day-to-day scenarios, we see attacks that focus less on sophisticated vulnerabilities
and more on manipulating users with social engineering.
As many still rely on detection strategy, attack does not need to be advanced.
It just needs to be unique enough not to be detected.
Email will continue to be the primary target for phishing attacks.
However, we can expect to see a broader range of phishing campaigns using messaging apps,
social media, and uses personal email to bypass corporate filters.
Nearly 50% of alerts and logs never investigated.
Organizations allowing serious gaps unchecked.
There's a need to leverage the recent advancements in artificial intelligence,
machine learning, and deep learning and to scale them to solve cybersecurity challenges.
Artificial intelligence, AI, is coming of age.
AI's industry growth will start to explode, and its impact on business and society will begin
to emerge dramatically into 2020's.
AI-powered machines and software will likely to start untethered from human supervision,
embarking on their own fateful paths as sentient beings.
How to ensure these self-modifiable
and self-improving machines or software are secure and safe?
On the other hand, these intelligence systems are heavily dependent on data,
which could be potentially new vulnerability that a hacker can exploit by poisoning the data
to fool the system and evade the phishing detection.
Cyber breaches are assumed, and the conventional methods for protection,
detection, and responding are not enough.
2020's is the age of resilience.
Resilience is ability to recover quickly from adversities
and learn to grow stronger and better.
To achieve security resilience, we need solutions directly support the following:
timely recovery from adversities,
such as cloud-based backup and disaster recovery services.
Agilities, which is ability to adapt to the evolving threats and changing environment,
is key to keep systems secure,
such as decentralized architecture via blockchain and Docker containers.
Security by design is to enable usable security to provide better awareness,
more intuitive tools to better mitigate social engineering attacks,
using AI and machine-learning methods to automatically spot anomalies,
and detect malicious activity, and automatically respond to cyber threats.
Ability to learn from past experience and achieve better results,
that is to use data-driven analytics' deep [inaudible] network
to discover new behavior patterns with less human intervention.
But wait, how are these security solutions?
Solutions that help business operate with speed and resilience doesn't often appear
as security solutions but have clear security benefits.
Removing attacker persistence is the ability to quickly wipe
out your own infrastructure and start it over.
It doesn't matter if attacker can do this.
If you can do it yourself too, this makes really hard for attackers to achieve the persistence.
If you look at Netflix architecture,
most of these back-end server infrastructure don't live for more than three days.
Some only exist for a few minutes.
So the notion of compromising your system and making it persistent by attacker will be,
become really, really challenging when you environment is constantly changing.
Easier or automated anomaly detection.
Manual solutions provide some declarative policy or automated data-driven analytic methods,
which can quickly detect anomalies
and suspicious activity without reprogramming the codes.
This enables agility and adaptability to the dynamic, changing threats.
Built in this ability, information
as it services cloud provides offer reach visibility and logging by default.
Design usable security to better mitigate social engineering attack is to alert user easily
and intuitively regards the suspicious mails or messages and also better manage their passwords.
Learning to adapt to new attack patterns.
The reason advancements in machine learning and deep learning enables the adaptability
through learning with little or no human intervention.
Let us recap with answers to the previous questions on, what kind of threats
or attacks should we see coming in the next decade, 2020's?
How should we get prepared for them?
We'll see three top threats: the rise of cyber attacks causing irreversible harms,
such as ransomware attacks -- too much logs and alerts to analyze in timely fashion.
Many unchecked gaps lead to potential vulnerability.
New threats and dangers from and to AI-powered systems.
We need to be cyber resilient through a wide range of solutions, such as cloud platform, AI,
machine learning, deep learning, and data-driven analytics,
serverless architecture, immutable infrastructure.