>> Cybersecurity is a bit harder to define because comparing
to computer security and InfoSec, it is fairly young.
It has emerged somewhere in between 1989 and 1994,
and the definitions still have to fully converge.
Many simply define cybersecurity as a subset of InfoSec since it concerns
with the information in cyberspace.
In general, cyber- as a prefix denotes terms relating to the internet,
but questions raised are: What is cyberspace, then?
What are the assets?
What about non-information-based assets in cyberspace?
Are there any unique aspects of security in cyberspace?
How is it similar or different from computer security and InfoSec?
Based on the definition by Ottis and Lorents in 2010, "Cyberspace is a time-dependent set
of interconnected information systems and the humans that interact with these systems."
Therefore, we know that cyberspace is dynamic, evolving, virtual, connected,
multilevel ecosystem of physical infrastructure, software, regulations, processes,
and interactions influenced by an expanding population of contributors
who represent the range of human intentions.
So on the very high level, you can think the cyberspace simply encompasses the internet
and its connected entities.
With the number of devices connected to networks and the internet growing,
not least because of the emergency of the so-called Internet of things, IoT,
it is clear that information is not only vulnerable assets
in the need of protection in the cyberspace.
Assets in cyberspace include information itself; information infrastructure,
that include internet, embedded software, firmware, or communication protocols;
non-information asset, which are physical entities connected on internet.
For instance, critical infrastructure, like energy grid, water supply, public health,
transportation system, telecommunications, financial services, and so on.
Internet of things, that include connected and self-driving vehicles,
connected medical devices, and connected home automation and entertainment system, and so on.
In essence, cybersecurity is about protecting all those assets that are vulnerable
in cyberspace to ensure their confidentiality, integrity, and availability.